---
type: Project-Note
---

<https://steno.ai/the-garyvee-audio-experience-928645257/all-of-business-and-life-is-based-on-providing-value>


Gary Vaynerchuk


Let me start with this opening statement: I actually think that all of business, in fact all of life, is completely predicated on providing value. Right? If you don't provide value, I don't care if you're the best marketer of all time; if your product is subpar, you're going to lose. You can do everything well, have every tactic down, know how to manage social media perfectly, and have the greatest landing page and conversion funnel you've ever seen. You can SEO your heart out, but if, when it gets to that point, you are unable to build retention or word-of-mouth, or scale the network effect of the quality of what you're selling, you cannot build a real business. You will ultimately max out or fail.

My whole life has been predicated on the fact that I think about how to bring the most value possible to whatever I do. When my life took me into a place where my career was predicated on selling wine, I wanted to sell it at the lowest price possible, provide the best possible customer service, and recommend the best new wines that I possibly could, because that was how I could provide value.

When I write books or speak, I always think about how I can give everything away. I don't want to sell anything; I want to give away as much knowledge as I can because it becomes leverage for anything I may want in the long term. See, I'm very much predicated on running a marathon in a world that I think is running a sprint. I think when we think about 2014, and when I consider the entrepreneurs in this room and the marketers of the brands I work with, we live in a world where people lack patience. We just don't have patience, and I promise you that if you're able to, whether it's financially or emotionally, put yourself in a position to have patience, you have a far better chance of succeeding. Your decision-making path becomes much clearer, and you build much more leverage to actually build wealth, work-life balance, legacy, or whatever makes you tick.

So, speaking of that, how did I get on that rant? I put out a ton of content. I write books, I put out tons of videos online, and I speak all the time. So when I think about sitting in this room, I can talk about a lot of things that you've heard from me before. I can talk about a lot of things that you could go to your hotel room or your house later and watch online to get the same content. What I'd much rather do is get dramatically more specific to anything that I could answer.

So, let me ask this question, and then based on that question, I'll decide how much I want to spiel and how much I want a Q\&A. How many of you in this room feel like you have some sort of grasp of me and the things that I believe in and talk about? Raise your hand. And how many do not? Okay, well, to those who didn't raise their hands, um, for the hands that went up, I'll go very quickly.

Um, and then since the majority does know, I do want to kind of go into specifics. I'm a storyteller. I believe in stories tremendously. I, I think that when you think about how things sell, how things are sold, they're sold by stories. They're sold by stories that either the brand created or stories that other people created. And so, stories really matter. How you, the way you feel when you wear the products that you wear are predicated on storytelling. You know, they represent who you are. The reason you believe it represents who you are is because stories were told of what that represents to society, so I think it's very important to understand that if you're selling concrete that you need to understand your story, that even the most basic, non-interesting things, your story may not be predicated on your product, your story may be predicated on how you got to your product, or, my story is very predicated in fact that I was born in the Soviet Union, that I immigrated to the US, that I didn't grow up with much, that I sold lemonade and baseball cards, that I fell in love with wine. Story-telling really matters. I'm a storyteller, so that's the context there. I kind of gave you a little bit of my backstory a little bit there.

I eventually fell in love with wine. I can tell you that all of my business success is actually predicated on, I've been thinking a lot about this lately. I've come to realize I actually suck crap at almost everything, right? That I'm fundamentally, I was a DNF student. I'm a really poor student, which means I'm not organized and I don't like to do the fine details, which matter, because execution matters, but I don't like that. Luckily for me, most people are good at that. It's actually a commodity, so I can surround myself with that all day long, but it matters, but what I'm good at, and I don't know how many, how many people here are baseball fans? Just raise your hands. Okay, so Mariano Rivera is a baseball player. He just retired. He was the closer of the New York Yankees for 15, 20 years. The guy had one pitch.

The guy basically, I mean, he had a couple, but he had one specific pitch that nobody figured out how to hit for 18 years, and he's gonna go down as one of the best pitchers of all time. I really think that that's what I'm about. There's only one thing I'm really good at, which is the understanding of the psychology of the end consumer of what they're gonna buy before they think they're gonna buy it. That's all I got. In 1996, without owning a computer, without owning a computer, without being techy in my whole life, in 1996, I launched a.com website for my family's liquor store business called winelibrary.com. Only because I believed, even though everybody told me in 1994 and five that they would never put their credit card into a computer, that nobody would ever buy wine on the internet, excuse me, on this information super highway, because that's what we called it, even though everybody said that YouTube was stupid and wasn't gonna mean anything. In 2006, when it came out, within months, I started a wine show on YouTube called Wine Library TV, which started the process of me becoming internet famous. I believed YouTube was gonna really matter, that it wasn't just gonna be random videos of cats falling off trees or people putting Mentos and Pepsi and it exploding. And I didn't think it was just gonna be 10-year-old kids watching it. And that's what played out. And in 2007, when everybody, even in the tech world, said Twitter was the dumbest shit ever, I didn't. And I put 10 hours a day into building a community there and established my presence there and leveraged that to a lot of the things that most of you even know me for.

So, what I spend a lot of time on is understanding what's about to happen based on what I believe, because I think that we trick ourselves in our own brains. We say we're not gonna do things that I know we're going to. For example, by show of hands, how many of you in this room said that you were never going to have a Facebook account five or six years ago? Raise your hand. And of those 20 people, how many of you do have a Facebook account? Exactly. And that plays over and over. Tons of people here are like, I'm never getting on that Snapchat, and then they get on that Snapchat, right? And that happens over and over and over again. So, establishing that, the thing I wanna really talk to you guys about is what you're selling for a living. I really wanna challenge everybody in this room more than anything else to understand that what the internet's really doing, what social networks are really doing, is it's bringing full transparency to our society. Everything you think and act on is now being documented because we are more and more documenting our thoughts, putting out pictures, talking about our things.

I implore everybody in this room to really think for 30 seconds now, not about the next three months or six months, but are you gonna feel phenomenal telling your grandkids about what you did for a living and how you rolled as a human being and how you made your money? Because I promise you, if you don't, you're gonna lose a very big game. I think I wanna start very high, and then we'll go low because your questions, we can get into details, and please, I don't wanna go philosophical, I wanna get into the business aspects, but the business aspects matter to the overall concept, which is we have to make smart decisions. When looking for money cos let's not forget why we're here, I mean, unless I'm confused, we're under the context of commerce and business in this room, which oh, by the way, the scorecard in that is money. When looking for money, when you're looking for it, you are willing to make decisions that don't feel good in lieu of it because you want it so bad. And so if you're able to somehow position yourself not to need it right this second, I promise you, you have a far better chance of getting it and more importantly, a far better chance of getting it and feeling good about how you got it. And so, you know, for me the theme is patience. You know, no matter what you're doing here, please understand that 36 months from now is not that long. It's not, I mean, you know, I met this nice kid back there, he's 17, he's like, you know, can you give me some advice? I'm like, if you do everything wrong for the next five years you're still gonna be young as and you can pick it up and keep going, right? Like if you literally do everything wrong. And that to me is the point of it all, right?

Which is that, I don't know, I spend a lot of time traveling and consulting and building my own businesses and I'm in rooms like this quite a bit and I understand and I'm massively concerned because of the lack of patience which then gets into decision making that I think is suspect at best. That's me being polite, right? And I think people writing their legacies and I highly implore you that you don't wanna lose the leverage of your name as a human being being tarnished because in three, four, five, six, seven years from now in a world of Google Glass, it's not just what people have on your reputation in the first result on Google. People are gonna roll up on you in real life and have every piece of information at their fingertip or maybe their eye tip and if those results don't feel good and if people are questioning your moral status and those kind of things, you are going to be in trouble. So, I'm starting with that. Because that's the single most important thing. Because if you get that wrong, nothing else will work. Now, the other thing I'm paying a lot of attention to because of the internet, social networks, what have you, is where do people actually pay attention? Like what's really actually happening? Because we're living through a huge shift. People's eyeballs and ears and ultimately their attention are shifting. See, we have a very broken business culture in America right now.

It's all about scale. How many followers do you have? How many impressions did it get? How many people are on your email list? Wrong game, wrong game. The right game is how many care and how many convert, right? And so, when people are thinking about top line numbers, they're not thinking about the bottom line execution. And so, what's wrong on social right now is a lot of people are putting stuff and they care about the overall reach and how many people... And that's important. You have to have an at bat. But if you're not understanding the conversion, you're going to lose. And so, the reason I wrote this last book, Jab, Jab, Jab, Right Hook, it stands for give, give, give and then ask.

I implore everybody to think about when they're putting out, and I have no idea what you do for a living, and we'll get into that in a second, but if you're putting out an email, or a tweet, or a Facebook status update or an ad, no matter what you're doing, when you are talking to the world, if you do not leverage the fact by giving people upfront, you then are in a leverage point of the ask, if you do not understand that mechanic, you will lose, because we have a supply and demand issue. Understand, we have a supply and demand issue on information. 20 years ago, we had 30 channels of television, and we had newspapers and magazines and the radio, and that was the game, right? The internet didn't exist. How many people here remember when the internet did not exist? Raise your hands, some youngsters in here. What the internet has done, and then the products built on top of it, YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, and on and on, has created a supply and demand issue. There's not that many more people, yet there's that many more people vying for people's attention and saying that they're this or they're that, and so we have a supply and demand issue. To be great now, you have to be better than you used to be because in the old days, there were people that decided who were gonna be the people we cared about. They put them on television, they allowed them to write for the newspaper, they were the kingmakers. The kingmakers have lost that power, and now the internet is the kingmaker, And what we all have the ability to do is put out stuff. Except, that sounds all great, and that sounds so exciting, but the flip side is, so does everybody else.

And so we have to differentiate, and we have to provide value. And to me, what I've watched, and I've watched this for a long time, the number one way for you to break out and actually win, no matter what you do, is to give first and use that leverage. And so, if you look, look, I watched the hashtag of this event starting last night, even on my flight this morning, and then I saw a bunch of people and I didn't know a lot of you and I knew you were here cause you were using the hashtag. So then I did my normal fun little thing that I like to do and then I started looking at your accounts and looking at your business accounts, and I can tell you right now, there's a lot of people in this room that are in the right hook, right hook, right hook, right hook business. Every post on your Facebook accounts and every second post on your twitter accounts is something in your best interest. You don't give a fuck about the people that follow you. You want something and you're providing nothing in return. There is a really interesting audacity slash entitlement going on in entrepreneurship right now in America. Let me tell you something about building a business. You're not entitled to- You're not! Just because you started a business and you have something to sell, you are not entitled to anything. The consumer's going to decide if they want it or not.

And by the way, even if you've been successful for a little while, you still have to be great again and again and what you did for me two days ago becomes completely irrelevant. And so I highly, highly recommend that a lot of people start adjusting their overall business philosophy and then that gets into the execution of how you're putting out content on all these platforms of some sort of variation of providing value, whether you're curating links from other places that are interesting information. If you're reading information and you find it to be good, you should put it out there. It is not your competitive advantage that you read something on the internet. Somebody else is gonna read it too. There's this notion of the information is your competitive, information has never been less valuable than it is today. You know why? It's at your fingertip. Who's the 13th president of the United States? I don't know. This old, it is literally, it is literally, it has literally never been less valuable to be book smart. It has never been less valuable than right this second to be informational smart.

This is what my big problem is with the education system. We're teaching our kids to memorize stuff that they have on their phones. It's ludicrous. So it has never been, so please, don't think the information you're reading, because and the reason I'm painting this picture is I wanna give you guys the easiest way to bring value to your community. The easiest way to bring value to community is to be a DJ, not a song writer. Songwriting is hard. Producing original content and original thoughts is very difficult. Consuming content and then deciding what's good and being the DJ to your community by adding a word or two to put it into context to your world and then passing it on, is their lightest weight to relevance right now within the social web and I highly, highly pay touch and I think doing it for social is a very good play, one that is the lightest weight for you to be able to do it. So, you know, to me, I'm a basic economics guy, supply and demand, supply and demand, right? Right now, we have a lot of supply of information and products and services, and just because you do it doesn't mean you're gonna get anything, and it's gonna get way worse, because every single youngster right now is vying and looking at entrepreneurship as a dramatically more interesting value proposition than going to school for four years, collecting $250,000 in debt, and then trying to go get a $40,000 job. As that continues to happen, we'll have even more voices, and guess what? I was phenomenal at 17.

I was a real businessman already. I was already making $4,000 or $5,000 a weekend selling baseball cards when I was 12 years old. I knew how to run a business. I'm not underestimating any 17-year-old, 22-year-old, 21-year-old, just because they're young doesn't mean they don't bring value to the conversation, and they have advantages that the technology in how we deliver information is something they're dramatically more native to than a lot of their competition in their 30s, 40s, and 50s. So we have some really fundamental, massive culture shifts in our society, and I'm gonna tell you right now, with all due respect to all of you in this room, including myself, we're all underestimating it. We are all underestimating what's coming. The amount of technology shifts, the way that we're gonna have to sell our products and services are going to massively shift over the next half decade. I mean, guys, there's drones about to deliver fucking to your house. I mean, do you understand that? I mean, people are grossly underestimating how we're gonna reach people. I mean, how many people here watch television when they want to, meaning, don't raise it yet, meaning, but thank you for some feisty people here, meaning when you watch your favorite television show, Let's eliminate sports and the results show of the voice. Let's eliminate live events.

How many people here now watch TV when they wanna watch it? On HBO on the go, on demand, DVR. How many people watch your favorite show when you wanna watch it, not when it actually airs? Raise your hands. Higher, I wanna get a sense. Okay, 85%. How many of those people have fast forwarded every single television commercial this year? Hold them up, can you guys just hold them up? I want the front rows to look back. I want everybody to get a sense of this number. So we're talking about 80% of the 80%. We're talking about an industry that is a $60 billion industry, television commercials, of brands trying to reach you to sell you product.

Yet, in 2014, instead of 2003, we're in a world, in 10 years, we're in a world where it has collapsed as a viable place to story tell to you because you are fast forwarding through it. And even if you're lucky enough, even if you're lucky enough to get your commercial through to somebody, every person in here, the second they're watching something and the commercial comes on, goes and grabs their phone. So it's not just about the impression, it's about the attention. So not only did you not see the commercial, the far majority of time, but the other times that you saw the commercials, you didn't pay attention to them. And so, we need to figure out how to get people to pay attention just because you think what somebody goes on a website and your pop-up ad pops up on them, right? Do you think they're necessarily paying attention to that? Do you think you're giving them a good experience? You may collect their email and you may see great conversion funnel, right? But you might not be bringing them the most value that you possibly can. Now you've gotta try them both. I understand why it works, but I also am asking you in a world where open email rates have gone from 25 to 13% in the last three years to start understanding we as individuals do not want to be sold to. And as technology gets better, we're going to be more difficult to get a hold of.

And the way to actually get a hold of us is to do it natively. And what I mean by natively is we wanna consume things in the way that doesn't stop us from doing what we naturally wanna do. We don't wanna be put in a place where you're bothering me. And that's why social networks are important. Social networks on your phone, which is where every day more and more of the consumption's happening, all is done natively. All you're doing on your phone, as all of you know, every day is this, right? And what's great about selling in this way is the ad on a desktop is not on the right side like it used to be on Facebook or on a website. It's just in stream. It's native. And if you figure out how to actually make that valuable to people, not just spamming them to buy and make it distracting, you will start figuring out the conversion funnel. By the way, for the short term, there's gonna be plenty of new innovations. But the psychology of selling natively to the way somebody's consuming is going nowhere.

It is the way you have to think about going forward. How do I sell, how do I bring value in the habits that are already established by the individual instead of creating them to have new habits that don't come naturally to them? So those are the things I think about. I think about how does that happen? Why does that work? Why was I able to sell tens of thousands of more books on this launch than my prior one? What did Facebook and Twitter and Pinterest and Instagram do for that? Why did I create Skillshare, Slideshares? Why did I do all these things? It was because I was trying to maximize upfront value to leverage by giving you value, by giving you value. Do you know why you loved your parents? Because they loved you first.

And when you start understanding that, you start understanding what I believe is the modern way of doing business. Because the kids, and I'm saying people in this room, 30 and under, 35 and under, they've been marketed to from the beginning. Us older 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, we didn't have that much marketing around us. So our bullshit radars are worse. It's true. Whereas the cynicism of our future customers is at an all time high and they're just starting. So I have bad news. Marketing and business got harder. It's gonna be harder. And I just want you to realize that. And I want you to realize what really matters which is providing value. And so I hope you do.