---
type: Personal-Note
---
# AI in Journalism Futures

**Initial Report**
David Caswell and Shuwei Fang
The primary purpose of the AIJF project was to collectively and systematically develop plausible scenarios outlining the potential impact of AI on the information ecosystem. The project also provided opportunities to observe how project participants, including all who submitted scenarios in the initial application process, approach the intersection of AI and information, and its influence on our information ecosystem. This section discusses some of the broader observations and insights gained from the project. These are not outcomes from the scenario planning, but merely interpretations of patterns that emerged throughout the application process and workshop discussions.
One observation is that there was near-unanimous agreement among participants that AI would eventually transform the information ecosystem in fundamental ways. There were different views about when this might occur and what its consequences might be, but there was no dispute that the long-term impact of AI would be significant, and no one argued that the potential for transformation was overblown or that the existing media ecosystem might continue in something like its current form indefinitely. The assumption that AI would be fundamentally transformative was exemplified by the fact that most of the AI driving forces identified during the graphical mapping exercise were deemed “high impact / high likelihood.”
**Most participants believe that AI will fundamentally transform news and journalism.**
Despite widespread acceptance of this assumption, participants were generally reluctant or unable to articulate exactly _how _AI might transform the information ecosystem. This seeming contradiction was most apparent in reviewing the hundreds of short scenarios submitted during the application process, but it also emerged during workshop discussions. Relatively few submitted scenarios described an AI-driven transformation in specific detail, and it was clear that many participants who were convinced that AI would fundamentally restructure the information ecosystem also had no specific point of view on how that might occur. One possible interpretation of this analytical limitation might be that many participants lacked a conceptual framework or vocabulary for envisioning an information ecosystem that is radically different from the status quo.
**Most participants could not identify nor describe specific scenarios that are fundamentally transformational for news and journalism.“The vision is the past.”**
—AIJF participant in conversation
This possibility was reinforced by the fact that many proposed scenarios—both those submitted during the application process and those discussed during the workshop—were clearly extensions of the existing information ecosystem, and often involved relatively minor variations on the status quo. Most scenarios implicitly assumed that the fundamental structure of news and journalism will remain relatively unchanged, in contradiction with the general confidence in AI- driven transformation. Familiar concepts from pre-AI and even pre-digital journalism, such as search and social media referrals, websites, fixed articles, monolithic audiences, etc., were common assumptions in submitted scenarios.
**The proposed scenarios were disproportionately based on assumptions that are rooted in the journalism status quo.**
These contradictions combine to suggest the possibility that many participants may feel, quite reasonably, that while AI will inevitably transform the information ecosystem, that transformation will be determined by actors with disproportionate power and flexibility to conceive of journalism and civic information in fundamentally new ways. In other words, many participants may understand that they are perhaps too rooted in the present conception of the information ecosystem to adequately reimagine it for an AI future. This observation is underscored by the fact that many participants expressed doubt that legacy news organizations would successfully adapt to an AI-mediated information ecosystem. This doubt was articulated explicitly, often starkly, in many of the small scenarios collected during the submission process, and informed many of the workshop discussions.
**“How will news respond to AI? Much like how the buffalo responded to the semi- automatic rifle.”**
—AIJF participant in conversation
**Most participants expressed significant doubt that the legacy news and journalism industry will successfully adapt to an AI- mediated information ecosystem.**
Given that participants generally found it difficult to imagine the specifics of an AI-driven transformation of the information ecosystem, envisioned an AI future based on the status quo, and expressed doubts concerning the ability of the existing journalism industry to successfully adapt to AI, it is perhaps not surprising that most participants were either journalists, ex-journalists, or in journalism-adjacent roles. The dominance of journalists in this initiative was not intentional, and attempts to attract applicants from the tech industry and related sectors were generally not successful. These failed attempts to recruit submissions from technologists working on projects related to civic information did, however, result in around 20 detailed conversations about scenarios for an AI-mediated information ecosystem prior to the close of applications. These conversations suggest that technologists are better able than journalists to fundamentally reimagine what news might become in an AI-mediated information ecosystem.
While this is clearly an anecdotal observation, it seems likely that technologists’ capacity for predicting the future of AI’s relationship to journalism is due to the fact that they are not particularly immersed or invested in the existing information ecosystem.
**Scenarios identified by journalists are generally less fundamentally transformational than scenarios identified by technologists.**
Throughout the application process and workshop discussions, it became clear that much of the conversation was not actually about AI, nor about journalism, nor about the current or future information ecosystem, but instead about power. It was clear that power, and the potential for transfers of power from one group to another, was the explicit or implicit subject of many of the submitted scenarios as well as the five final scenarios that were distilled from the workshop. Central to these scenarios is a contest for power over who controls AI and toward what ends,
whether those gaining power are in the tech industry or ordinary people who might assume control over their own information consumption experiences. Given the predominance of journalists and journalism-adjacent participants, it is perhaps not surprising that many of them were preoccupied with the loss of power that journalists are likely to experience in the transition to an AI-mediated information ecosystem. The technologists we spoke to, however, tended to overwhelmingly emphasize the potential of AI to create new value for news audiences, and they usually stressed AI’s potential to produce large-scale and long-term social benefits. This difference in perspective between journalists and technologists may represent an explanation or even a potential leverage point for action towards adapting journalism to an AI future and is worthy of more rigorous study.
**Scenarios describing potential transformational implications of AI for news and journalism are, generally, evaluated by journalists in terms of power dynamics, but evaluated by technologists in terms of value to audiences.**
There was surprisingly little discussion of AI as a tool for use in pursuing specific objectives. The “AI is just a tool” perspective is extremely common within newsrooms focused on immediate and incremental applications of AI for efficiency gains, while AIJF is focused on more fundamental or structural implications of AI over the long term. Nonetheless, participants did not address the possibility that AI could serve as a high-level tool—i.e. as a general capability useful for addressing specific high-level objectives for the information ecosystem, whatever they may be—nor did they discuss the specific high-level objectives for the information ecosystem at all. There were exceptions to this trend, and participants engaged in a few impassioned discussions about AI’s potential to make news more accessible to more people or increase government transparency. But most discussions centered on reacting to new conditions, responding to new threats, or defending against AI as a hegemonic force. Again, there were many exceptions to this, and this is also perhaps not unexpected given the scope of the project, but it was noticeable.
**In general, participants did not tend to frame AI as a tool to be used to achieve specific high-level objectives, but instead as a force or as a regime.**
Throughout all stages of the application process and workshop, we observed a tendency to evoke various _deus ex machina_-style solutions to the challenges of adapting the information ecosystem to AI—far-reaching panaceas that promised to comprehensively address most of the challenges presented by AI if they were to occur. These potential “all-in-one” solutions included regulation, AI literacy, the prospect of audiences choosing the existing ecosystem over a potential AI- mediated ecosystem, and even the prospect that the technology sector might ignore news and information and focus its energies elsewhere. These kinds of solutions were typically not described in detail nor presented as specific proposals, but instead often served as a way to conclude a given discussion, sometimes prematurely.
**Vaguely defined “all-in-one” solutions were sometimes a barrier to discussing potential scenarios systematically and specifically.**
A surprisingly large percentage of participants expressed heartfelt appreciation for the systematic, structured nature of the AIJF process. Many of them shared that this was an unusually productive discussion for them, and that it contrasted favorably with most forums in which high-level “future of news” concepts were addressed, where conversations are often unfocused, meandering, and socially- oriented, and where discussions about the strategic future of journalism tend to be intertwined with political, social, or economic perspectives – both tendencies that were mitigated by the structured nature of the AIJF project and workshop. Several participants expressed a desire for even more of a systematic, specific, objective approach to this ongoing discussion, to the point of systems and interaction diagrams, information schemas, etc. Some participants seemed to desire a more technocratic or even technical approach to understanding and acting within an emerging AI-mediated information ecosystem.
**The participants overwhelming valued a systematic, structured, thoughtful approach to discussing fundamental changes in news and journalism.**
Finally, it was abundantly clear that many, or likely most, participants felt overwhelmed by the complexity of the information ecosystem (current and future), by AI, and by the pace of change at the intersection of AI and information. Many expressed a sense that AI was emerging into an existing environment that was already incredibly complex and uncertain, with enormously consequential issues around trust in information, changing audiences for information, business models for information producers, relationships with platforms, etc., mostly unresolved. AI, steamrolling into this already highly complex information ecosystem, now brings new uncertainties and complexities, not only in relation to the technology itself, but also to the very essence of information collection, processing, and consumption. There was a clear sense that the tectonic plates of information in society were moving, but that we are lacking the intellectual frameworks, foundational theories, and even vocabulary to help make sense of that change. Many participants expressed fatigue, exhaustion, or resignation at the burgeoning AI onslaught, and there was a shared sense of a lack of agency to shape a future information ecosystem dominated by AI.
**Many participants shared a sense of being overwhelmed by the complexity of AI and its potential consequences for news and information.What we missed‌**
1.**‌Feedback from the participants‌**
In the weeks following the workshop we solicited feedback from participants via direct discussion with about 25 participants and also via a structured feedback form sent to all participants. The form asked participants to identify insights learned and missing perspectives, and to provide general comments, which yielded responses from an additional 10 participants. The objective of these requests was to gather thoughtful evaluations of the discussions that had benefited from several weeks of consideration by the participants following the workshop. We observed several persistent themes in the feedback that we received.
Participants were almost universally very positive about their experience and about the quality and usefulness of the discussions. The workshop was perceived as relatively unique by many and seemed to fill an unmet need for a frank and unflinching discussion of the fundamental challenges facing civic information at the largest and longest scale. A frequent observation was that the formal structure of the workshop, and the preparation before it, helped to ensure that this “big picture” approach generally remained focused and specific. Accompanying this appreciation for the structure of the workshop, however, was a frequently expressed desire for additional time for unstructured conversation following the event. Numerous responders suggested that they would have benefitted from a third day for open discussion.
Many reported that the small groups’ presentations to the larger workshop audience did not accurately reflect the wide-ranging, creative, and courageous perspectives expressed in small-group discussions. A variation on this theme was that the small group discussions contained more “details and nuances which often did not make it into the larger group messaging.” This corresponded with views expressed during the workshop, and commonly expressed elsewhere, that
conversations about AI’s potential impact on journalism are “more radical” in private than in public. Perhaps relatedly, we also received feedback from some participants expressing a realization that they “were not the only one” anticipating extreme changes in the information ecosystem and an appreciation for discussions in which it was clear that “there are people in important positions who are seriously concerned.”
Participants generally thought that the sessions could have benefited substantially from the inclusion of two underrepresented groups: policy and regulatory experts, and technology company representatives. More broadly, there was a frequently stated sense that the participants were perhaps a little too homogenous for a truly wide-ranging discussion, especially in terms of their relationships with, and status within, the existing information ecosystem. One participant compared this to
“asking a 15th century scribe to forecast the effects of movable type printing technology on their industry and society,” suggesting that we might have seen different perspectives “if the modal member of the group had been a 20- something independent creator on TikTok, YouTube, Substack, or any of the other platforms that are part of the emerging ‘new news media.’”
Feedback also revealed some key points of dispute among participants. One concerned broadening the focus of the workshop from journalism to the larger information ecosystem. Many participants thought that this was appropriate and “greatly appreciated the efforts to depart from the notion of journalism and think more broadly about civic communications.” Others, however, felt that the discussions and outcomes might have been more manageable and relatable if they had been more narrowly focused on journalism.
Probably the most significant difference of opinion concerned the relationship between legacy journalism organizations and technology companies. Some participants expressed a desire for confrontation between civic society organizations and technology companies, with one stating that it was time to “sit at the table with policymakers and tech companies forcefully, even if it is to go for a rupture or a more hostile conversation,” and another speaking in terms of “what we (i.e. legacy journalists) have to get from policymakers and tech companies.” A more common viewpoint, on the other hand, was to accept technology companies as critically important players in the emerging AI-mediated information ecosystem and to engage with them in good faith. One participant
bemoaned the tendency to “think of tech as inherently evil” and another suggested that the journalism industry should be “listening more to people on the outside, let go of prestige and legacy, and collaborate in order to steer towards a desirable future.”
2\. **‌The perspective of the organizers‌**
In light of the full experience of designing and operating the AIJF project, reading and listening to the views of approximately 1,000 people via the mini-scenarios, developed scenarios, and in workshop discussions, we have developed several conclusions that may be useful to a broader audience. We believe we have achieved the project’s objectives, with the caveats discussed elsewhere in this report, and therefore the following conclusions are offered in the spirit of potential improvements.
First, focusing on journalism may be a barrier to imaginative and meaningful discussions about the potential effects of AI on the information ecosystem. We came to this realization following the launch of AIJF, with “journalism” already
part of the project’s name and identity. In hindsight we have found that use of this word may encourage too many pre-existing assumptions, legacy perspectives, and perhaps even some defensiveness regarding traditional journalism, a stance that increasingly represents a narrow perspective on how societies might inform themselves and how consumers might experience and influence their societies through information. Any plausible view of a future AI-mediated information ecosystem will likely encompass far more than is captured by the commonly
understood definition of “journalism.” This should be reflected in the design of initiatives similar to AIJF.
Like many of the participants, we feel that the application process and workshop would have benefited from more involvement by people outside of the journalism field, in particular start-up founders, representatives from platforms, and employees of other technology companies, who might have both broadened and grounded the discussion. We did attempt to recruit submissions from this group and engaged in many one-on-one conversations in an attempt to do so, but we were relatively unsuccessful. Our sense is that there may be a greater willingness among technologists to fundamentally re-imagine the information structures and processes of society in light of AI, and that we might have been able to simultaneously expand both the imaginativeness and the specificity of our discussions by including those perspectives. We also feel that discussions would have benefitted from the inclusion of younger or “Gen Z” participants engaged in AI or in the content creator ecosystem.
We believe that discussions were hampered by a lack of attention to what constitutes a socially beneficial information ecosystem and what its core objectives should be. While this reflects unavoidable uncertainty about what the
ecosystem might become, some specificity might help the existing journalism industry to engage in an intellectually honest conversation about its core objectives, beneficiaries, and methods before discussing potential scenarios for, and potential adaptation to, an AI-mediated information ecosystem. A considerable portion of the submitted material and workshop discussions failed to discuss these questions, instead focusing on what journalism fundamentally is – a discussion that could have beneficially taken place long before the advent of AI.
Finally, we believe that there should be more discussion and thinking about what is _not _going to change as we transition to an AI-mediated information ecosystem. Despite decades of academic research around journalism and communication we are still left without a fundamental understanding of the basic cognitive needs of human beings regarding information about events in our world and in our societies – a psychological framework describing why humans value journalism at all. Likewise we are also without reliable and applicable frameworks or theories for how information flows within societies, and are left instead with opinions, anecdotes, and folk theories. Initiatives like AIJF and other attempts to imagine an AI-dominated information ecosystem could be greatly aided by a better understanding about the enduring and unchangeable aspects of the relationship between human beings, their societies, and information.
3\. **‌Towards a better view of the emerging information ecosystem‌**
We observed a strong desire among players in the current information ecosystem for a clear and succinct roadmap outlining exactly what AI will do to media over the coming years. Anyone hoping that this report would provide such a roadmap will probably be disappointed. We are clearly entering a period of significant and unavoidable uncertainty about journalism and civic information. It may be possible, however, to bring that uncertain future into slightly better focus, and maybe to discern it slightly sooner. AIJF represents an early attempt to do this, but there are other things we can do to help us to improve our collective foresight.
The most vital is to expand the conversation about the role AI in journalism beyond its use as a tool to optimize the status quo. Familiar tasks, workflows, and products are a natural and useful place to apply AI, to reap some early gains, and to learn. But we also need to fundamentally reimagine what we want our information environment to become in the presence of AI and to articulate a specific vision for what we consider to be a favorable outcome for ourselves, our
organizations, and our societies. This is probably now the primary concern of anyone tasked with navigating the intersection of AI and journalism.
In doing this we must avoid motivated reasoning. We need to take off any rose- colored glasses about the status quo and our role in it, and adopt an attitude of extreme intellectual honesty about the value we create and potential new opportunities for creating that value in novel and unfamiliar ways. We also need to do the work—to show up, with our homework done and a coherent list of specific goals. None of this will be easy, but it will be necessary.
In imagining a credible and coherent vision for an AI-mediated information ecosystem it is a safe bet to focus on serving audiences, which demands delivering genuine value to real people on their own terms. This advice should be familiar to anyone aware of the best practices for operating a newsroom in the era of social media, but it will be dramatically more applicable in the era of AI. Each of the five scenarios described in this report can be interpreted in terms of opportunities to serve audiences in new and better ways.
[Some of the most inspiring and imaginative examples of radically new approaches to journalism and civic information are appearing in small newsrooms beyond the US, EU and UK. During the AI in Journalism](https://www.opensocietyfoundations.org/publications/open-society-s-applied-ai-in-journalism-challenge) Challenge—a four- month accelerator program operated by the Open Society Foundations in late 2023—we repeatedly observed small news organizations without significant resources, technical skills, nor experience with AI, imagine and deploy radically new interpretations of journalism and civic information through an innovative use of AI. These activities included instant contextualizing of news from knowledge bases, empowering local citizens to tell the stories of their own communities, and creating mechanisms for continual, systematic monitoring of entire news beats.
These examples, and many others like them, show that using AI to improve journalism is not an impossible challenge.
The AIJF project and this report represent an early step towards better understanding the potential AI-mediated information ecosystem, but other steps will follow. There is additional detail and analysis to publish from AIJF, including work by academic researchers, articles about practical implications and the anonymized scenarios submitted by applicants. There are plans in development to extend this work by seeking input from the start-up and technology communities, as well as from “Gen Z” content producers and others. There will be further gatherings, including by those seeking to actively invest in support of positive outcomes from AI in our information ecosystem. And others beyond OSF are increasingly engaged in similar conversations and promise to undertake useful
**“Optimists have agency.”**
—AIJF participant in conversation
research and initiatives. Some of these projects will likely include monitoring and evaluating the information ecosystem as AI becomes more influential, and identifying early examples of projects and organizations that demonstrate what journalism and civic information might eventually become in a world of ubiquitous AI.
It is natural to be apprehensive about the scale and pace of change that AI might bring. One workshop participant spoke about “a group tendency towards the dystopian end of the spectrum as challenges can feel so huge and insurmountable.” Reaction to the scenarios produced by AIJF will likely be interpreted by many as primarily negative. But there is nothing assured about a negative outcome. At this early stage of the development and application of AI there is still only potential, and as much reason to anticipate positive outcomes for human societies as negative ones. Crucially, we all have some agency over how this plays out in the coming years. We are not spectators. We can engage and renew, imagine and build. We can seek to use these new tools to serve our audiences, our communities, and our societies, in new ways and perhaps with better outcomes.