---
type: Media-Analysis
---
# CUNY Lecture, November 21, 2023

Jeremy Caplan


Welcome, welcome everyone. We are at our last session before a little break, before the Thanksgiving break, and then we're going to have a few more sessions in another break. So we have some time to reflect and re-energize later this week. But before we get to that time to re-energize, we get some great energetic time with Alan soon, one of my favorite colleagues from Splice.

Alan's just off the successful Splice conference, the Splice Beta conference, the fourth one, Alan, right? Yeah, Mike was there. Mike was there, and we've had a bunch of alums there. I was just going through, looking at some of the pictures and saw some amazing faces of familiar people. And Alan's organization, the Beta Group and Splice Beta, they share a mission with us, which is really injecting innovation and enthusiasm into this next generation of journalism, and doing it a different part of the world than where we are.

And so I've just been so excited to get to know Alan a little bit over the past year or so, and to have the opportunity to invite him to come join us for our session today. And I won't say too much because I want to give Alan as much time as possible, except to say that I think it's really, really valuable for us to continually get out of our regional spaces or our niche spaces and to look at, explore innovation in different parts of the world, but also different verticals and different categories.

And so for all of us, I think our tendency and my tendency is to look at other newsletters like mine or other publications in a similar area. And so whenever I get pushed to look at, explore projects that are in very different domains and very different areas and very different styles, approaches, platforms, there's so often an interesting spark that we can bring back to our own community or to our own approach or to our own publication. And even if there isn't, we can just learn and get inspired.

So encouraging everyone to kind of like be open to expanding outside of your own domain in terms of where you seek your sparks and your inspiration. And so with that, Alan, welcome back. Delighted to have you here, excited for this session and welcome. The floor is yours.


Thank you so much. I just wanted to say good morning, good evening to all of you here. I see a lot of familiar faces. Mike and I were at Beta just two weeks ago. You didn't come down with a cold, did you? Mike? Oh, you did. Yeah, I got terribly sick after. Okay. I think there was something going on there. Well, I'm somewhat recovering. So if you hear me coughing on the mic here, apologies for that in advance. Good to see you, Manon. It's been a couple of years since we last met. So really nice to see you. Let's see, who else here do I recognize? I recognize a lot of names, not necessarily faces. So I'm sure I've seen your byline or your work somewhere previously as well.

So very quickly, the goal here is to try to be slightly provocative, if you will. My goal is to help you redefine how you look at media and news and journalism. So there might be some parts that might seem uncomfortable. But that's also part of the goal, right? The only way for us to address where media is going is really to push boundaries and how we're defining it.

Okay, so let me quickly load up my deck. I keep losing my place with Zoom. Much better off with Google Meet. Alan, do you want me to run the poll while you're doing that? Oh, yeah, that's a great idea. Okay. A quick poll for all of you. Looking ahead in the next 12 months, how confident are you in your ability to remain relevant in media, one to five with one being low? Hey, that's not bad at all. That's really great. Give it one more second.

All right, let's share the results. So yeah, a lot of optimism. That's really amazing to see. Okay, we can get into some of those details later on. I think that would be quite interesting to see what's powering your optimism in this space. It also makes the conversation a lot easier. Okay, so let me hit the share tab. Okay. What is going on here? I've got my screen up. Do I hit stop for the poll? What am I missing in here? I hit share screen. I'm not seeing my screen at all.

Okay, let me try this again. Oh, okay. Yeah, actually, if it doesn't work, Alan, I could share your slides for you. I know that's not ideal. No. This happens all the time with Zoom for me. So I know I hit share screen. It's showing me desktop one. There should be another little tab that says a specific window, and then you could choose just a specific window application. Okay, hang on. Sorry, folks. There's a security issue that I need to turn off.

So I'm curious who else has been to Splice Beta, one of the four conferences thus far. The recent one was the one we were just referring to. And actually, if you haven't seen the Splice Beta site, by the way, that's one of the great conference sites in my view. I'll show you the link. Basically, it gives you all of the, well, it will, I guess, Alan, right? It'll give us all the decks and all of the resources as well as photos. And oops, that's not...

Okay, Mac OS wants me to quit Zoom and reopen this. Okay, I'm going to try that. I'll be right back. Okay, we'll see you in a second. Mike, if you don't mind, I know you're a little under the weather, but I had mentioned that maybe you could share some insights from being at Splice Beta. Maybe you can take a few minutes to hear from you, if you're willing.

_Yeah, sure. I'm feeling back to normal now, actually. Yeah, I mean, it's my first one. I'd been wanting to go for, well, since I first heard about it, I've known Alan for a while now. Yeah, I mean, it was super inspiring. I mean, it is Asia-centric, but there were people all the way from, like, Colombia and Brazil that flew, I don't know, like 40 hours to get to Chiang Mai. And yeah, just really inspiring and enlightening to hear from so many newsrooms, individual creators, you know, a mix of solo journalists and groups of journalists doing really interesting work, covering everything from, you know, LGBTQ issues in India to gosh, I'm gonna blank on ideas now, but a lot of organizations from the Philippines and actually Chiang Mai, which I kind of knew, but is like a hub for exiled Burmese media. So there was a lot of journalists there from Myanmar. After the situation there, it's pretty dire, but still doing incredible work. Yeah, I think it's just like, it was amazing energy and I can't wait to go back and, you know, would highly recommend going, even if you're not like maybe Asia-focused, it's still, it's about much more than that. Yeah, the slides you shared. Thanks for the sell. Oh, there you are. Hey, Alan._

Okay, hang on, I just need to, gosh, okay, you can see the slides, right? We're good.

_Yeah, we see your browser top too, but it's okay._

Yeah, we'll make it. No, that's really weird. Okay, hang on. Okay, here we go. This is better, right?

Yeah, great. Okay, this is the stuff that confuses me all the time because it takes over the entire screen and I can never quite tell where I am. Okay, sorry about that, guys. Newbie mistake on Zoom. Okay, I took the liberty of changing the title on this one just to make it a little bit more specific as to what I think I can talk to and, you know, especially here we are at the end of the year looking ahead to where 2024 could go. So I want to talk about how we can think about media thriving in 2024. It's been a really hard year for all of us, I guess. You know, I think anyone who's tried to raise funds this year have seen, you know, a very different landscape. We can talk a little bit about that later and we can talk about how we can go about solving some of those problems.

Okay, so for those of us who've not heard of Rashad and I, we're the two co-founders of Splice. We've been around for about, I think we're entering our ninth year come February. So we've been around for quite a bit now. Both of us come from newsrooms. We both have decades of experience working in newsrooms. Rishad mostly on the design and product side of things. And for me was the editorial and the business side of things in newsrooms. So I worked across radio, TV, news, wires, magazines, and then later on went to run Yahoo's media business in this region. So the mission of Splice is actually quite specific. Our goal is to help build media startups all across this region.

Our focus and our core belief is that we need a diversity, a diverse set of media companies that are out there, people with different skill sets, different ways of working, if we want to see a true transformation of the space. So we work with a global ecosystem on this one. And, you know, the event that we do every year brings that ecosystem together for everyone to see. So we bring together, you know, funders, investors, consultants, trainers, everyone who's got a stake in this media landscape. So very quick ground rules. It's okay if you want to turn off your cameras. I don't really mind. I'm not much of a camera person myself. So I can understand the need to turn that off whenever you feel like it's useful. But be present and ask plenty of questions. The chat box is wide open. So, you know, feel free to drop your questions in there. I'll try to keep an eye on that one as well. But, you know, I also want to keep this casual enough that we're able to just kind of stop anywhere and just get into a set of questions that you might have. Don't worry too much about keeping notes. I'm always flattered when people do. But, you know, don't worry about this. I'll send this over to you guys when it's done. There's also a lot of new material that we're bringing into this conversation today. So, you know, this is my way of stress testing the, you know, the audacity of these ideas, but also the, you know, whether these actually hold water. So if you see anything that you think is complete nonsense, please call it out. All right. So the TLDR, in case you need to run off, you know, it's late in some parts of the world right now. I can summarize it to four points. Okay. So the first one you'll hear a lot of. The internet is user-centered, demand-driven, and interest-based. Three very simple ideas that you'll see talked about throughout this presentation. The other thing to keep in mind is that attention is finite. We all have a certain amount of time every day, 24 hours, as far as I can tell. And we all have a very fixed amount of energy that we want to spend giving our attention, right? So that's a core principle. But at the same time, the content that's available on the internet is infinite and even more so with AI. And we'll be talking a lot more about that. So that's something to keep in mind. The biggest risk to this industry is this phase that we're entering, where we're going to have infinite supply of content. And at the same time, the same 24 hours of attention. Point number three is the stuff that gets me in trouble sometimes in a crowd like this. But, you know, I really do want to say this as simply as I can. Consumers don't care about what we're calling journalism. They don't care about what we're calling news, right? There's now a new generation of people who've grown up just flicking through a social feed every few minutes of the day, looking for stuff or running into things. What we call it doesn't matter. And I'll address some of these ideas later on as well. Number four, the best way to survive, you know, in 2024 is really to obsess about what your consumer needs to solve, right? What is it that your user, your reader, your listener once solved, answered, you know, addressed, and figure that out early on, right? Your obsession about that is really what entrepreneurship is, okay? Okay, so we hear this all the time that the media business is broken. It's really not. It's in the process of getting transformed. And, you know, the funny thing is that I was just going through some of the big milestones in this business. This is not a new thing, okay? I know, you know, very often we talk about all this stuff as though it just happened yesterday, but this has been happening for 30 years, okay? This transformation, this disruption that we're seeing in the media industry, we've been seeing this for lots of years, and we've always been desperately trying to force fit all media ideas into new digital formats, okay? So if you look back in the last 30 years, what we've seen is, you know, we started with Yahoo, for example, in 1994, can you imagine that? We had Craigslist, which basically destroyed the classifieds in the US, and that was 1995, gosh. Goal came on and started taking away the advertising business. YouTube, 2005, Netflix, 2007, and TikTok, you know, the most recent, 2016. So in many ways, the disruption that we're seeing in this space is not entirely new, okay? This has been going on for 30 years, whether we acknowledge it or not. Now, the biggest mistake that media companies make is in assuming that the Internet audience is a mass one, right? This is what we all grew up with. If you were in J-School before the 90s, or even in the 90s, this was the one thing that they taught, right? How to reach a mass audience with content, with information, with journalism. The Internet is the complete opposite of that, right? And on the Internet, your goal is really in serving an audience of one, okay? How do you take your ideas that you were trained to provide for, you know, 100,000 eyeballs in serving the needs of that one? That is where the Internet is. So [Jeff Jarvis](Jeff%20Jarvis.md) was, you know, kind of built his name on this, on this one quote, right? He said, we are coming at last to the end of the Gutenberg age of mass production, mass content for a mass audience. Funny thing is that, you know, [Jeff Jarvis](Jeff%20Jarvis.md) said this in May 2016, you know, that was a long time ago. This stuff has been going on, right? So, you know, I hate showing up at conferences, and this is the one thing that they want to talk about. They want to talk about the future of media, right? You see this as a headline everywhere in all major conferences. It comes up all the time and very often, you know, with a question mark at the end, right? This is something that never gets answered as far as I can tell by all the conferences that I've been to. So I hate this. I hate this headline. It drives me crazy. And the reason for that is that it's already here. Modern media is user-centered, okay? Put your user at the center of it. Figure out what the demand is that they have from you. Figure out what they're interested in and deliver against that. That is what modern media is meant to be on the internet. So we're all living in an information economy, and that's really just one currency here, which is your attention, right? We talked a little bit earlier. We all have 24 hours. This is what we are spending on the internet. This is what we're spending consuming content. So to survive, we need to be able to spot some of these patterns, right? One of the reasons why we as an industry for the last 30 years have been so bad at spotting this stuff is because we keep looking for what looks like, smells like, tastes like news or journalism or media. And we often forget that on the internet, your audience is very different from that. So your audience is basically saying this to you. I'll give you my attention if you help me solve this very specific problem that I have, right? This is the user's journey. I will give you attention. You solve this for me. What they're also saying to you is, hey, my problem is your business opportunity, right? So when you have, when you're putting on the entrepreneurship lens on this, this is what it sounds like. I will give you my attention. I will give you my money if you help me solve my problem. That's what they're saying. The challenge here is, how do you figure out what that problem is? So we'll come to that in a second. But I just wanted to quickly look at the chat box just to make sure I'm not missing anything here. So from time to time, I'll do that. And yeah, it doesn't look like I missed very much. And she's been hearing about these broken models and changing media landscape since. Absolutely, yes. That's also because J School is teaching journalism. So that's one of the things that we can talk about in a second. So, you know, in a group like this, every single one of you here is a business opportunity for supplies. The very fact that, you know, I'm here speaking to you at 11, something PM, you know, is because you have a certain need. You have a certain need that you need to address and you have a certain thing that you need to understand. And so this is how we think about opportunities on the internet, right? Okay, so how did we get here? And this is this is a really good time to kind of maybe go back to what Jillian was saying, you know, even back in 2009, this was already the conversation, right? So Jillian, if I could call on you, what was journalism like when you started in 2009 at J School? And what have you noticed since then? Oh, sorry, did I say I was going to call on people? Don't worry. No, it's been interesting because I've basically been coached through like three different pivots since 2009, right? Like there was like the pivot to video, the big one. There's been kind of more in the last few years, like the more pivot to social media. But, you know, it's always been kind of the same models and the same conversations about why those models weren't working, which wasn't really inspiring when I first got to J School. So that's interesting because I also have a three phase theory around this stuff. So you said video, social, and what was the last one? Did I miss the last one? No, I probably miss the last one. I can't remember at this point. But yeah, I know at least social and video that I've gone through. Actually, now lately, the movement has been more towards these days and what's got me more excited has been like local and community engagement journalism. So that's kind of what I find more interesting. But then there's also conversations about the nonprofit model. So that's in there somewhere too. Ah, okay. Funny enough, that's very close to what I've been thinking about as well. So if you look at how we started this, right? So media 1.0 was direct relationships. This was this was media when I entered the industry, you know, you work for a big publisher, big brand, and you talk directly to your audience, right? There was nothing else between that, right? So you had a direct relationship, your audience knew who you were, they trusted you as a result of that. You also had data on them, you know, rudimentary, obviously, this was free internet. So, you know, you had an idea of who was reading to some degree, you had an idea of who your subscribers were, right? So that was 1.0. 2.0 was social led, very similar to what you were talking about, Jillian. And here, this is this is no surprise, we now have the social platforms coming up. I think Facebook came on the scene 2004. If I can recall my own slides. So this was when that conversation started to change. Social platforms started to to be the conduit between publishers and audiences. But the big tradeoff was that the social platforms then had all the data on what was being clicked on, what was being read, what happened after that and what these people were interested in, right? 3.0 is kind of where we are now, more or less, the fact that we've got, you know, the word creator in this in this course title tells you a lot about the thinking that's emerged in this space over this time, right? So now, not only do you have the social media platforms there, social media platforms are working with creators to reach communities that, you know, the creators want to serve. And therefore, giving both the creators and the social media platforms a very, very unique view in what people are interested in. So again, if you remember that earlier slide where we talked about serving the audience of one, this is exactly where it is, right? Creators are so good at going after that audience of one, and then extrapolating that into an audience of a thousand, a hundred thousand, a million. Okay, so that's media 3.0. Media 4.0 will change everything. This is the stuff that excites me, scares me, and I'm sure all of you have been thinking about this at some point. Sorry, I'm just going to take a quick glance at the chat box before I go on. A video, what a mess. Yeah. Okay, good. Okay, let's get on to 4.0. Okay, so how is this going to change everything? Well, 4.0 is just a phase of endless media. Everything that you can imagine that you want to see, read, listen to will be created by AI on demand. It would be in any voice, any style, any format that you want. You already know this. I think anybody who's been reading up on where AI is going understands this, right? All of this stuff is happening in real time on demand. Okay, and it's going to be everywhere. Wall-to-wall content is a thing. So this is a phase that's literally content everywhere, everything that you can imagine, any format that you want, and all at the same time. So again, this is how the audience of one is going to be served, because the audience of one is looking for that one specific thing, that one specific knowledge that they're able to pull out from a bot, for example, right? So the implications of all this, I'm sure this is not going to be a huge surprise. The value of evergreen content, all of us, I guess, kind of know this term. If you worked in a big newsroom before, you've had a trove of these things. Evergreen content, Christmas is a great example coming up again. You'll see the same stories coming up over and over again. That kind of content is useless and basically, well, okay, maybe not useless, but worthless. Okay, all that stuff will be generated by AI over and over again. It would be cleaned up, adjusted, adding more color to it, but by and large, that is going to be worthless content in terms of the value in that ecosystem. Human curated services will be challenged because it's just too limited in its ability to scale, right? So for example, if you needed a very, very specific Christmas guide to ham, for example, or toys for a three-year-old boy, something very, very specific, humans can't do that. That's where AI is going to play. The value of personal human content starts to go up, right? So subreddit, for example, events in person, events like this, for example, online, this is where that value is going to be because you can't create this by AI. We're also going to see conversations around initiated value around human IP versus machine value, which is going to be more valuable, what is going to be worth paying more for or less for. That's not really clear yet, but that time will come when you come across a song that was made just for you by AI and you like it so much and you're wondering, what is this really worth to you? You could also extrapolate that and go, this could be a movie as well. This could be a TV show, right? So what is it going to be like when we're able to say, all right, I've got some friends over tomorrow. These are the types of movies that they've liked in the past. Can you make me a movie for two hours that runs two hours that has subtitles in Bengali and in French? And that's going to happen, right? So that's just a matter of time. The next point here, made by machine, guaranteed by human, this I think is going to be one of the more interesting opportunities that we should all be thinking about as entrepreneurs. How do we position ourselves with a certification program, for example, that allows us to say, this is guaranteed by human, right? So that's something to keep in mind as we carry on this conversation. Of course, the fact-checking industry is going to be decimated by all of this. It's already underfunded. It's already not getting the kind of support that it needs. And I wouldn't be surprised that this is going to be a no-win situation for them. Just want to read out what Mike Tatarski said here in the chat box. I kind of remember who said this at Splice Beta, but someone argued that AI will make okay slash average writers much better and largely flatten the middle ground between bad writers and great writers. And of course, the competition between the two ends of that spectrum will get more intense. I definitely agree. You know, that time is now. Embreen. Can I ask a question, Alan? Yes, please. When you say the end of the fact-checking industry, do you mean because machines will do it well or do you mean because fact-checking itself would go away? Great spot. Yeah, fact-checking will have to go away just because it would not be able to keep up with that wall-to-wall deluge of content. It's already suffering right now. It's going to be even harder for that to happen. When we are fact-checking corners of the internet, that's not going to happen anymore. I don't think that's scalable, unless there's a counter AI that comes up that does it just as well. But I think that's going to be a massive challenge just because of how much bigger this information ecosystem is going to be. One of the things that I haven't really quite put into this presentation, which might be worth keeping in the back of your mind, is that our understanding of the information ecosystem is really around news and media. That occupies just a small sliver of this entire information ecosystem that's out there. There's stuff that's going on that we don't see, we don't understand. The ability of the fact-checkers have only been in the space of news. They've only been able to fact-check news. They can't fact-check anything else and everything else on the internet. When I go on YouTube, I see a whole bunch of videos that are created by so-called historians or academics or whoever. I have no way of determining if that's true or false. That's just the deluge that's out there. That's the thing to keep in mind. We are only looking at that one percent, if not of this information. It's funny because I always thought that maybe back-checking would be the value we would provide as journalists in the future. That's interesting. Yeah. You see some of the warnings that say governments have been putting out around, say, financial services, for example. Do not believe investment advice that you're seeing on TikTok. Governments are starting to say that. Regulators are starting to say these things. And they're saying this because they know that ultimately the news industry cannot keep up with this. That the conversation around fact-checking the internet has to be a much bigger call to action for the entire industry. It can't be done with human fact-checkers as journalists. I think that's very, very hard. Mia says, I wonder if fact-checking will ultimately be a difference between internet content and actual journalism. Yeah. That might be an opportunity. I just don't know what that's going to look like. If it hasn't already happened, it's going to be impossible in the next two years. In the past, how many years now? I'm guessing past five years, Google and Meta have been pumping money into IFCN, the fact-checking network, trying to make that work and trying to make that impactful. And I hate to say it, but I don't think that has been very impactful at all. I don't think it's made a big difference in the way people consume content, in the way people stumble on content, because our problem here as an industry is where we're showing up with a tablespoon to a gunfight, thinking that this is dinner, and it's a whole different ballgame. Our attempts at trying to fact-check news with news is really for that 1%. The rest of the world is just scrolling through random garbage on the internet, and it's in their heads. And that's where that challenges. If that was something that could have been done, it should already have been done. And now that we're into media 4.0, wall-to-wall, I think that's impossible. Okay, so here's another grim slide. If your work as a journalist can already be answered by a chatbot, your job is done. This is a slide that Rashad and I drew up months ago, not quite knowing where AI was going to head. And over time, we're starting to see that this is becoming a bit true. So this is how you read it. The low-value jobs of tomorrow will be jobs that are done by AI. And these are going to be mostly fact-based, I hope, things that look back into history, things that look back into published content. So in that sense, because it has access to all of that, it's going to be pretty low in originality. It's going to be evergreen stuff. So if you wanted to find out more about Napoleon, for example, you can get AI to give you a reasonable explanation of the reign of Napoleon as emperor. Those are things that can be done quite well because it happened in the past. Okay, so that because AI is able to do that, the value of that work is going to go down. The future on the other hand is really going to be around work that is around new and current types of news events, stories, information that are current, that are new, things that have happened before. So I think one of the questions that publishers will be asking themselves in the future is, has this been published before? Does it already exist on the internet? And if the answer is no, then it's probably worth getting a human to do it. Okay, because that's where that value is going to be. It's going to be probably opinion-based, probably current, probably new, high in originality, and therefore commanding a premium set of values. Does this kind of make sense? Is this scary? Okay, so now if you were to look at your jobs, what do you think in your current role could be replaced by AI tomorrow, or even today if you wanted it? Is that something you want them to drop in the chat, or would you like people to speak of? Yeah, we can do both. Always happy to hear voices. Feel free to raise your hand or unmute if you want to speak. All my admin work, yeah. Contracts, God. Yes, please. Can your AI talk to my AI and sign that paper for me? Come on on. Do you want to talk a little bit about pivot to media literacy? What does that sound like? It's an idea. I guess I'm still a little bit hopeful in this AI that like, I mean at least like some of the AI gen stuff I've seen has been sounding so much the same, like everything sounds the same. So I feel like people are going to be hungry for something that sounds fresh from journalists and other media creators. And so within that, I help but wonder if like it's more about teaching people about the limitations, the risks, the concerns with AI as a pivot away. If fact checking is being replaced by AI being able to do some level of fact checking or by just the fact that there's too much maybe media literacy and helping people be more aware of what to be careful of when they see content online might be one way to stay relevant, maybe? I hope. I definitely believe that there's a need for that. Whether that can be done at scale and whether people are still going down their TikTok rabbit holes. That's something else, right? Yeah, that's stuff that scares me. If an AI can do my freelance taxes, that'd be great freelancer taxes. Yeah. I want local in-person media literacy classes events out of the foundation. How much fun and worthwhile not a lecture is the issue. Yeah, I think these things will be interesting to see how it gets done. You see how the social media platforms are struggling trying to put labels on AI created content because they believe that there's a need for disclosure. I think that's really important. Whether they actually do that consistently at scale is going to be a whole different ballgame, right? Okay. I've been using AI for audio editing huge times. I agree. Headliner is amazing. I'm not sure if you're on that too, Manon, but that's fantastic. Yes, summarizing classes, definitely. In fact, I was going to ask you for a copy of this recording to see how I could turn some of that into content that we get to reuse later. Anyway, all right, let's move right along. Okay. Now, if that wasn't scary enough, you want to see something really scary? Okay, so this came up in Mark Zuckerberg's Q3 learnings call. I think this was only about maybe a month ago. I'm not sure if you guys saw this, but this came up almost as a fleeting thing that he said on the call, which made me really kind of go, wait a minute, what was that? So this is what he said. He was talking about the launch of all of Meta's AI tools and how wonderful those are, right? So he's, you know, in the context of this is basically that. So he was saying creators will now have all these tools to make content that make that more easily and more fun. And I think over time, maybe we can even get to the point where we can just create content directly for people based on what they might be interested in. You see where all this is going, right? By the time you make the next flick of your thumb in your feed, the AI generator would have created a post or a story or an image or a how-to video or a, you know, how to train your dog video, whatever, it would have done that by the time you make the next flick, right? So the interesting thing is that he's also trying to position the future of where creators are versus AI. So while the platform does need great creators that produce great quality content people want, we're also, he's also hinting at a time when all of this content will be made in your feed in real time. So that really just blew my mind. What do you all think of this? Yes, to what end? Correct. Yeah, actually, go on. No, no, go, go. I think people will eventually realize that everything is made for them as they wanted and maybe just get a board of that kind of content. I've been using ChatGPT for my work since, I think, two months very excessively, I would say, and it really helps me to save time. But in the end, I have to adjust things and it doesn't have a soul and it doesn't have humor, it doesn't have, doesn't react in a human way. And I think that this is, I've been attending to a conference last month and there was an expert on AI telling this thing that we cannot, we can let AI do many things, but we cannot have the personal connection or we cannot replace that to have a personal conversation or the personal connection. So I think that people will actually join live events more or enjoy things that are where personal interaction actually happens more. So I'm actually, it looks so frightening, but actually, I don't know, maybe I'm too optimistic. Yeah, just I like the optimism. Ashlyn. I'm generally pretty resistant to AI because there's a lot of it that I don't understand, but on this point here with Zuckerberg's statement, I think, you know, if everybody starts to only, I am of the belief that there's too much content out there, there's too many people lip syncing and telling you what they ate today to ever get to anything good on the internet unless you're directly searching for it. But I think with this concept of if something is curated uniquely for you every time you go to snap your fingers, the shared experience of media is just going to be pretty obliterated. And if you are only seeing things that have been specifically curated for you and your interests, the discourse around content or around different topics is beginning to, is in some way going to become obsolete. I mean, right, isn't the, if you are of, say, a different political spectrum than a friend of yours and you go online and only see content that is curated specifically for what you already believe in, it's going to make it much more difficult to have human-to-human conversation even. I 100% agree with you, Ashlyn. And I would also say that this is the exact experience that anyone has on TikTok today. You could go on TikTok and not have a single friend and yet spend the next 10 minutes just randomly scrolling through shit because it's that compelling. And that's really quite scary, right? And you now see this in Instagram as well, where there are all these random videos that come up. They're playing the TikTok playbook. They're showing you stuff that they know is engaging for a whole bunch of people because it's entertaining or it's whatever, right? And it just shows up. And that's a scary part. These are not people that you follow. These are things that you're not necessarily interested in. Or you have not sought out, but that's what TikTok is. That's what you're being said now and what you're expected to spend more time with. Yeah, it's terrifying. Very. TikTok's been around since 2016. So very soon we'll have a whole generation of people who've grown up on TikTok, on seeing random stuff show up. And the next stage to that is to get more random stuff that's made by AI, right? Sorry, I missed a hand that was raised just a moment ago. Who was that? Oh, it was me, Lindsay. Hi. I just wanted to say to be like a devil's advocate for TikTok, I've tried to start using it more just to understand it better. And I feel like I use it and maybe I'm not the average user, but it almost feels like flipping channels on a TV like I used to when I was a teenager. It's entertainment versus Facebook and Instagram, which at one point was connecting with friends or community. So I just feel like they're really different products and the way that people use them are very different. And I kind of think Zuckerberg, I think he long ago lost his thread about why people use his products, which is like connecting with other people. And I hear a lot from people younger than me saying that they're losing interest in those platforms because they don't provide the community connections that they had once offered. So I don't know. I'm hopeful that we're moving away from social media. And also there's a big push by the government for social media to be having a cigarette moment where there's going to be more gargoyles in place to protect our children. I don't know, that's my hope for all of this. I think when you lose the personal side of it, it just is not so interesting. Yeah, I 100% agree with that. I think a company like Metta gets this because they see their own data. They know exactly what's going on. They see that a lot of people have moved from the traditional Facebook experience to in WhatsApp groups. They're a bit tighter. And this is why this year they launched communities on WhatsApp because they see how some of these things have started to shift. The biggest threat really is TikTok for that business because they've seen the power of what an algo can do just by throwing stuff at you that is not related to your friends or your interests. And that's quite stunning. You see YouTube trying to follow that same principle as well. Just random stuff that's coming up now because they also see that that's creating the engagement that they want as a company. So those are things to watch out for as well. A lot of these things are shifting really quickly. And that's why I love looking at earnings calls because you get so much out of understanding what they're seeing that we're not seeing from the outside. These algorithms are being tweaked on a minute-by-minute basis to adjust for some of the big changes that we've even yet to see in this space. Just wanted to quickly look at what is going on in the chat box. Hera is saying in my interviews with interviews for audience research, mostly Gen Z millennials, folks say they were more trusting of more independent influences that are in the reality and reporting than US outlets. I think we've seen the same survey results from the Royce Institute numbers. People are more likely to trust influences than the media outlets themselves. This is a thing. And there's going to be a lot more of that and synthetic ones as well. Okay. All right. So we talked about this. What would it be like if we were to see a whole synthetic experience being created in real time? So that's what it's about. We're entering this 4.0 phase of custom-made songs. Songs that an AI understands that you're going to be interested in or that you would like while walking through them all. How to videos because you've been searching for how to change a spare tire, change a flat tire. Custom-made newsletters, which I think is going to be quite a thing. It's already started. I've been seeing a few. Custom-made news, custom-made TV shows, like I was saying earlier, custom-made movies. Everything will be custom-made because you can now deliver to an audience of one. This is the promise of the internet and it's starting to happen. Okay. So at a time when content is infinite and on demand and everywhere, what then is the opportunity for media entrepreneurs? Any thoughts around this? We've seen some of the comments earlier around media literacy, the importance of providing that as a service. We also talked about in-person events and how we could create more of those to several communities. What else is there that we've yet to address? I have a question. I think we're talking a lot about this in the chat about prompting. Sort of like the power of prompting and this connection of like prompting it well generates, I guess, better content or better whatever you're inputting into AI. I'm curious, just maybe your thoughts on that. Is that a potential strength that we have in terms of grappling with this shift or being ahead of the shift and kind of where media is right now, where it's going? Yeah. Maybe, can you ask that question a bit more specific? Yeah. I guess I'm just curious like how prompting, just being able to understand how to best use the AI, the role that'll play, I guess, in terms of just the quickness. Yeah. I think we're still in early stages on that one. Learning how to prompt is on both sides. The human needs to know how to ask a question. The machine needs to know how to interpret that. I think we're getting there a lot faster than we know. The experiences that we all have right now is with chatGPT, which is trained on a whole bunch of people. But imagine what it would be like if we were to train that on our emails, for example. If you could train that on the last 10 years of emails that you've been writing, it would have a much better idea of how you would structure a sentence, how you'd express yourself, how forceful you come across in an email, for example. A lot of these things will get better. That's the stuff that I'm most interested in, because I think that that's where the value is if we're able to train it based on our own data. I see this happening in newsrooms as well. I think that any newsroom with a huge enough archive should be training their AI to answer questions in a way that the publisher would. I think those things are really important, especially for publishers who have a very unique style of writing and a very unique way of answering questions. I think that's really quite important. I think the stuff that we're seeing in the bigger universe of LLMs with chatGPT, that I think that's going to be the 80% experience that is out there, but the opportunity is going to be in the 20% that we all hold on to, whether it's our personal emails, our newsrooms' archives, or any kind of data that we all have. I think that's where it gets exciting. Jeremy's point about training there. That sounds exciting. Alan, a couple of people mentioned the potential to reach niche audiences as an opportunity for media entrepreneurs or a specificity voice. Yeah, 100%. That's really the audience of one. When we say niche, we tend to think small, but if you're thinking about a language that's spoken by a million people in a corner of India, for example, that's not niche anymore. That's now an audience of 100 of a million people. That opportunity is definitely there. It's not just niche in terms of content, but also in terms of formats as well. People who want it in a WhatsApp channel will get it there. People who want it in an Instagram story will see it there. Being able to generate all of these things in real time is really fantastic. You could do the same with podcasts, for example. If you said, for example, as part of your morning wake-up routine at 6 a.m., go out to the world, gather all the news, and read it back to me in a way that you know is meaningful to me in my language. By the way, you only have three minutes to do that because the kids are going to be up soon and I'm going to have to get them off to school. That's where some of these things will happen. I think the format stuff is really quite exciting because we're going to be able to get custom-made content the way we want it. Okay, let's rock on. For us to move forward, we really do need a better way of understanding what media is. I think we talked a little bit about this early on about the need to broaden our definitions of what media is, what journalism is, what news is. The reason why we've held back or been holding ourselves back for so long is because we have very specific ideas of what this looks like. That's time to change. One of the things that often comes up is when we do law consulting work for media startups and very often we get stuff like this. I'm going out, I'm going to hire a 10-grade journalist, going to buy a whole bunch of tech, rent an office, make videos, untold stories, and get a million views. We all know people like that. It's not like this. This is a very traditional definition of what a media startup is. It's really not like that. You also know people who say, let's do a podcast because I like podcasts, everyone's getting the podcast, everyone seems to like it, so let's do it. That kind of conversation goes nowhere. We're also seeing people who are saying, hey, we're publishing 20 stories a week, which are getting 200,000 page views. We need more stories for more page views. This is that circular argument that goes over a cliff. All of these, huge gamble. There's no proof that these are the right to take, especially not the time of media 4.0. The problem is that we always assume that people want just one kind of journalism. We've created a whole bunch of institutions and all newsrooms based on this one flawed belief that everybody wants the same kind of news. There's a reason why we call it mainstream media. There's a reason why there's a whole generation of people who refuse to participate in mainstream media. The trouble is we tend to think of this as one-size-fits-all. The reason why we call it mainstream is because it means that probably 90% of people have the same views, same interests, same understanding of the world. That's not true, as we all know. It's not one-size-fits-all. As we've been saying, modern media is user-centered, demand-driven, and interest-based. It's not going to be one-size-fits-all package of stories that all of us are getting. If we were to fast forward where we would be, let's say two years from now, all of us would be getting news and formats custom made just for us because we are different people. This one blew my mind as well. I had to take the entire quote. I know it's huge and I know it's a lot of squinting here, but I just needed to take it because it said everything that I've come to understand about mass media. I think she's already left. This was a statement that she put out almost about a week ago. BuzzFeed has had what might just be its final big reorg in which they fire their own publisher. Dao, on the way out, basically wrote this, which confirms everyone's suspicion of where mass media is. She talks about the idea that BuzzFeed was always premised on being this big network effect of getting a whole bunch of people into a system, throwing ads at them, building a big advertising platform. But all of that has changed in the past two years. She's calling out last two years, fragmentation of audiences. The advertising market has changed mostly because of COVID. The squeeze from big tech platforms, which we all understand. They've lost interest in the new space. We've also seen, as a result of all that, the value of distributed only audiences has been rapidly diminishing, and now it's approaching zero. Some might even argue that its value is, in fact, negative. For all of us who build out systems and organizational structures around this idea that we are going to build a media company on the back of social media platforms where we buy traffic, getting them to come to our website, loyalty doesn't matter, intent doesn't matter, as long as we're throwing eyeballs at it. That idea is now dead, and we're seeing this with BuzzFeed. Okay, I hope that's clear. Shall we take a quick break, or do you have questions on that last slide that you want to, or comments that you want to throw out before we go? Let's take five minutes. Yeah, break sounds good. Lots to chew on. This is really great. Thanks, Alan. So many provocations, as you promised, you've delivered, and excited for the next part of the journey today. Very good. Okay, let's come back in now in five minutes. See y'all. All right, big, small business, and we're booming. Yeah, big, small business, and we're booming. Thank you very much. Big, small business, and we're booming. Yeah, big, small business, and we're booming. I put all my kids just to provide for my neighbor. Big, small business, and we're booming. Yeah, big, small business, and we're booming. Thank you very much. Big, small business, and we're booming. Yeah, big, small business, and we're booming. Yeah, big, small business, and we're booming. My community know I'm a fly to the paper. I put all my kids just to provide for my neighbor. I said my community know I'm a fly to the paper. I put all my kids just to provide for my neighbor. Yeah. Big, small business, and we're booming. Yeah, big, small business, and we're booming. yeah, big small blast then we boom boom big small blast then we boom 小小地的風 big small blast then we boom big small blast then we boom 嗯 嗯 嗯 嗯 big small blast then we boom boom Thank you very much The圖 Alan you'll just have to share your screen again. I turned it off to play the music. Yes. Boom. Is that good? It looks great. Yeah. Cool. Let's see. How much time do we... Okay, we've got about 49 minutes to go. I'm just wondering when I'm going to lose my voice. We can have the AI read it for you afterwards. Yeah, that's right. That's right. Someday, someday. We'll just take a quick minute, Alan, to have people share a quick thought you're taking away from the first half. We're going to have a lot more ideas in the second half, I know, but just a quick moment if people want to share. If you have something that's like resonating with you right now, I know there's a few thoughts that I'm thinking about after that first half and I wonder if people could just take a moment, just take a quick moment and just share one quick thought in the chat, something that's, again, resonating with you, rumbling around that you're thinking about or curious about or going to remember from that from that first part before we dive into the next section. Yes, a community. Wow, okay. Alan, I want to just press you on that evergreen thought again, because Lindsay mentioned it here and it calls it to mind again. I think what I understand from what you're saying there is really about the kind of evergreen content you're referencing and that specific example you gave, which is like, I think you were sort of talking about generic kind of Christmas content, like here's a Christmas soup or something, which is not specific to any one year or place or time. I mean, maybe it's specific to certain culture, but it's somewhat generic, whereas there couldn't be evergreen content that's very personal or very specific and actionable, but it's made by a person with a very specific viewpoint that's distinct, possibly. In other words, there might be some nuances in terms of evergreen content, like not all content necessary. I don't think you're saying that content only has value if it's about what's happening right now or it's news related. I don't think that's exactly what you're saying. I think you're talking more about sort of generic content. Yeah, correct. The more generic it is, the less value it's going to have. So basically anything that you can prompt AI, a chatbot to respond to, is going to be somewhat generic just because it's out there. And that's where the challenge is. So if you were, let's say for example, if you were going to Paris for the weekend and you wanted travel tips, that stuff is everywhere. For a chatbot to give you that response in a high quality format is pretty simple. And because of that, that value is zero. But if you were to prompt it to say, suggest some locations in Paris, taking into account the film festival that's happening there, which are two must see movies that I need to go for and which ones are still available for tickets. So then that becomes a whole different thing. But yeah, the generic, you know, Christmas soup stuff, you might have just coined the term there. You know, if it's Christmas soup, it's not going to be all that useful. And also evergreen content could be not just personalized, but sort of wisdom or, you know, someone with a great essay, right, that might be or or a great perspective, a very passionate perspective that you could continue to resonate over time, right, about persecution or about some, I don't know, like the value of doing hard things and entrepreneurship, like there could be some kind of like these things that are evergreen in the sense that they apply in different eras. But they're different from they're they're not generic though, right? They're not sort of the thing that as you put it, they're not the thing that, you know, the AI could just spit out necessarily. Yeah, I mean, if you were to look up, you know, if you were to prompt, you know, give me five solid principles around starting a company today. You know, those I think would be fairly non controversial, reasonably generic. So therefore the value goes to zero, right? But if you were to prompt, how would Warren Buffett organize his company for a sale, you know, in 10x his his investment, that might be a bit more interesting. I really like what I'm seeing in here. You know, there's there's there's the stuff around community building is is really resonating. What is it about community building that there really stands out for you, Mary? And and yeah, and then Brin also mentioned community as well. What is it about the community that stands out? Is it the human factor? Mary, do you want to take that? Yes, of course. Thank you. So I was trying to type in the chat box type of a very long answer in the chat box. Yes, the it's the human factor, building the building a community in a or rather that people want a sense of community in a very diffuse, fractured, wild, I think the internet has kind of made a bit worse. Yeah, and I think I just add that what you're describing, Alan, is that content seems to be like maybe getting divorced from the idea of bringing people together. So, you know, maybe that's a new job role for journalists. If maybe [Jeff Jarvis](Jeff%20Jarvis.md) kind of painted this for us at the start of the session, like the program was that we're not in the content business, we are in the community building business, you know, and I think what you're saying today really reinforces that. Yeah, and maybe another way to think about this is, you know, if if your if your kid has a fever in the middle of the night, the first thing that we all do as parents is we Google it, right, looking for for other things to look out for symptoms, medicine and all that. But the most I mean, and there's a lot of information that's out there from very good, trustworthy sources, but there's nothing like a human to human contact, right, where you're able to text another friend of yours and say, hey, sorry, it's 2am in the morning, but can you tell me what to do? Right, that's the way that value is and that's the way that community is, right, human to human contact is what I think we all need to be kind of steering ourselves toward. Jillian saying I'm drawn to community journalism because it also relies on the sense of identity instead of avoiding it. I love how you said that. Very often, I think in mainstream media, if that's such a thing, you know, a lot of this stuff gets gets ignored because you're trying to go for that 80% of your of your readership. And so, you know, all the all the difficulties of expressing identity gets pushed away side. Yeah. Okay, good. Yes, let's move on. I think a lot of these, I'm glad you're talking about community because, you know, a lot of the slides that I have coming up kind of address some of these points. So let's let's go with those. Okay, I said this earlier. Nish is not about being small, it's about being very, very specific, right? So, you know, like, like what you've been saying around community and being very specific, who are the people that that need to be part of this and how do we value their lives? That's being very specific. This is something that we love doing. Just to kind of again, you know, make the point, how many types of Pringles chips are there? Let's make a guess, but put a number into the to the chat box. Twined. Oh, okay, okay. 52. All right. Famine on 100 plus. I've actually forgotten, because I've not seen this a while. But here's the answer. It's 50. Every single taste that's out there is catered for in Pringles chips. And why do they do this? 53. What makes a company create all of these crazy different types of chips? Everyone has a specific taste. Right? Of course, they still sell original chips. And that's the one that I because I kind of be bothered to experiment. But, you know, it seems like there's a market for others who will want to imagine, you know, this is if you would imagine this to be content, original Chris would be mainstream media, that would be your New York Times. And then the rest would be all the other niche community types that are out there. Right? But also imagine where we're going to be with media 4.0, all of this stuff will be able will be done, you know, in a media context in real time. And that's what it's going to look like. What about Colgate? Let's make a guess. How many? 40. 25. Okay. I like that. Yeah. Okay. 34. Once again, same thinking. Everybody has different needs. Some like salt in the toothpaste, like I do. Some have strong teeth, some have sensitive teeth. I like the idea of having clove in my toothpaste as well. I need to go hunt that down. But it's really quite, quite amazing, right? That, that, you know, makers of chips and toothpaste, they understand this Colgate understands this Colgate understands that there's not one single type of consumer out there. And the best way to survive as a business is to be able to go hunt down every single one of these use cases, understand that all of these are niche, but they run really deep. Like people really care about the toothpaste, as they care about their potato chips. That is the kind of thinking that that needs to be in media, and we don't see it. We have one thing that we sell, which is the news, and we expect everybody to buy that, right? And we're not even very specific about this, this news. We're saying, you know, it's journalism, it's stuff that holds people to account. But it doesn't go very much further than that. And explaining what does it do for you? Does it, you know, is it meant for people with strong teeth? Or is it meant for people who like salt in their toothpaste? We don't go very far in figuring out what audiences want. And that's where the problem is. You know, if you look at all the different SKUs that are in the typical vending machine, for example, right? So Fridoli, for example, does 700 SKUs when it comes to their candies and chocolates. And, you know, Kellogg's has 200 SKUs. Like anyone who is serving a consumer base understands that you cannot just sell one product. It needs to be a whole bunch of different products for very specific niche audiences. Same thing with cars, right? Not everybody wants a blue two-door VW bug. Okay, so all that said, you know, 2024 is going to be a tough year, right? We talked about this earlier. There's going to be a lot of noise because AI is going to create a lot more content for us. It's going to be wall-to-wall content. We saw this addressed earlier in the BuzzFeed quote that tech platforms are pulling back. They're pulling, you know, they're pulling back on grant support. Development funding, you know, I know a lot of you lean on development funds. That's going to be very hard, increasingly still. A lot of it's still been dedicated to Ukraine. Interest rates are high. It doesn't look like it's going to come down till maybe, you know, middle next year in the US at least, right? So when you have interest rates at 5%, people are less likely to want to take a bet on things. People are less likely to try new things, okay? The zero interest rate policy that we've had over the last, you know, over the COVID years are gone, right? So that's why you saw that big surge in experimentation during that time, and now not so much. And this is going to be something that persists into the next year or so. The only bright spark in all of this is that digital ad spend is coming back, but only for the platforms, right? So if you look at the meta earnings report and what Google has been putting out, you see some of these numbers coming back for them, not for the rest of us. Definitely not for publishers. Okay, so this is one thing that I really want to get to. What does journalism even mean, right? So in the context of how this is going to be a tough year, sorry, next year is going to be a tough year, in the context of where AI is going, in the context of how difficult it is to explain what is journalism to, you know, the 99% that are out there, what are we going to do about this? What does journalism even mean? I often try to poke the bear in saying that in the next 10 years, we'll stop using the word journalism because we no longer understand what it means as an industry. The only reason why it exists right now is because we've got journalism schools that tell this story of, you know, building a career in journalism. But for the most part, you know, 10 years from now, we would imagine where that TikTok generation is going to be 10 years from now, what their understanding of journalism is going to look like, right? So that's something that we need to really, really think about. The traditional definition has been around, you know, getting accurate information to the hands of people who need it, people who could use it, right? And that's something that still lingers at the back of my mind and, you know, needs some rethinking. At the end of the day, the work of what we do as media entrepreneurs, you know, we need to be obsessed about five very simple questions. Who needs this information? Why do they need it? How will they get this? Basically a format question like we talked about earlier. Is it a podcast? Is it a newsletter? Is it a piece of paper? Is it a community meetup? What can they do with it? What is the expected action from there? And also, how can they corroborate this? How do I know this to be true? So these are things that we need to be obsessed about as media entrepreneurs. You know, very often we get stuck in this process. We are trying to get from A to B and, you know, very often we're trying to get people better access to information, better knowledge, better journalism to use that word, you know, and struggling with that because very often the solutions that we're offering don't fit the problems that people face, things that they need fixed. What else has an objective and a solution? Your standard Google Maps. We've all seen this. We all know how this works. You want to go from A to B. You don't want to go around just to get there. So the ideas that we've always had around journalism about hiring 10 great journalists and, you know, getting an office and putting out great work and getting a million views, all of that's got to go because we're not asking the right questions here. What we need to get to is to make assumptions around what users in the community, what problems they have, how to test that quickly, how to iterate that, and how to repeat that process so that you can find another solution to go solve. This is basically what media entrepreneurship needs to look like this year, next year, and the years ahead. If we're not able to figure out what people need done, how are we going to go out there and try to build something for them and to provide them something that is valuable enough for them to pay for, if it's not something that solves a problem, if it's not something that they need. So the way to think about this is that media is really in a problem-solving business. This is something that very often gets ignored. It's easier to say that media is here to take down corrupt governments and to hold corporations to account. But at the end of the day, for media to survive in a very, very competitive, very busy space, we need to understand what problems are there that exist, what problems we can solve. So media is really in help people figure shit out business. This is what we need. This is where we need to get to. This is the mindset change that we need as an industry. So people need to know, how do I vote? Should I rent or should I take on a big mortgage? What school do I go to? How do I get a job? What about healthcare? Where do I get cheap grocery deals? All of these things are day-to-day needs that people have. And yet these are the things that media is so bad at addressing. We think that we do a great job at this. And then we realize that we don't. We don't answer the simple questions that people have often. So, you know, we really do need to understand what people need so that we can serve them better. Remember, we all got into this because we wanted to do important work for society, right? And that work begins with your ability to serve someone's need to be informed, help someone solve a problem today. We talk a lot about news avoidance, right? This is something that comes up every year in the Reuters Institute report, which also annoys me because I don't think that's a right label. The label is really about news relevance. Do people even find news to be relevant to them as they go about their day-to-day lives? And I think that's probably the harder question to ask, right? Where people do you avoid reading news? Most people, I'm telling you, probably can't tell the difference between news and non-news in their feeds anymore. If we're asking people, you're avoiding news. They probably wouldn't know how to answer that. It's easier to say, yes, I'm avoiding anything. You know, look, I don't read news because it's not relevant to my life. It doesn't reflect my interests. It doesn't reflect my community. It's not the stuff that I've been... So we've been saying this, modern media needs to be user-centered, demand-driven, and interest-based. And the way to do that is by asking people what they want, giving people what they want, addressing their interests. So how do we think about what audiences want? How do we build products and content that meet those needs? And how do we go about building something that's truly valuable enough to pay for? The last one is probably the hardest part. If you can't get them to pay, you don't have a business. Quite simple. Questions at this point? I know I've just kind of rambled through a whole bunch of slides here. Thank you. Sorry, Alan, I'm so curious about how you and Rashad think about the different flavors of splice, just like the different flavors of Pringles. Great question. Okay. So the way we try to understand this is... And I see why you're asking this question. I see the parallels here. It really comes down to, first of all, who has a need that you can serve. The way we make money tends to be around consulting, training, and events. Each of these has a different customer. Training tends to be paid by the large NGOs, for example, that you and I work for. So it's their interest that gets transformed into a product. In the case of events, it's a blend of sponsors and users. So trying to understand what is it that they want to get out of it. What would it take for someone to buy a $50 ticket to show up in Northern Thailand? Trying to understand that has been really quite a journey in itself. Maybe one of these days, I can show you how we've organized our subscriber base. We have a CRM that we have been feeding over the last few years. So we have everyone's names in there with a rough idea of what they do and what they are interested in. The thinking is that over time, we would be able to then train an AI around this stuff so that when we come across it in job titles and different places in which they're working, we should automatically be able, with a high level of certainty, predict what that person needs and wants. If it's a mid-level journalist who does social media at a newspaper, that person will have a very specific need. Then the next question is, how many of those do we have in our CRM? Is it 50 people? Is it 100 people? What would be a cost factor for them? Who would pay for that? Would they pay for it? Would someone else pay for it? I know that's a very deep conversation that you and I should have one day. That sounds good, but that already sounds super interesting. Thank you so much for sharing. Sure. What did I miss in the chat here? Will AI ever have ethics? I sure hope so. Will they abide by standard journalism ethics? No, I don't think so. I can make a few guesses around that as to why that's not going to be possible. Journalism ethics is stuff that we, as a group here, could probably write up in less than five minutes. Not to say that it's superficial because it's not superficial, but because the principles are very, very generic and it's very simple enough to explain. It's easy for us to together and train an AI around some of these principles. I think that's easy, but that's just our own AI. There are a whole bunch of people who don't care about these ethics. A whole bunch of people who look for possibly different things as well. If you were a financial regulator, your level of ethics would be very different. That's the stuff that you'd be training your AI to look for when it goes around looking for misdemeanors. Not sure if that answers the question. Should we move on seeing that we're already 20 minutes ago and I'm really losing my voice. When we look at the last 30 years, remember that early slide that we had early on. Tech disruption that we're seeing didn't just happen in the last decade. It's been happening for the last three decades. If you look at why Netflix is where it is, it's not because they went out trying to kill Blockbuster. It's just that people hated paying late fees. Uber didn't kill a taxi business. People just wanted different access. They were also tired of high fees. Apple didn't kill the music industry. People didn't want to buy an entire CD just to get one song. All of these things are not tech disruptions. These are not things that happen because of tech. Tech enabled them, but at the heart of all of this was that one person, that five persons who said, I don't want this anymore. I wish there was a better way to do something. Everyone here had a specific need and this is why these companies are where they are today. They were able to address those needs. They were able to understand what those needs were. So technology itself is not the disruptor and biggest threat to the media business and any other business out there. It's failing to give people what they want. For really not understanding that your role, the business that you're in in media, is that of problem solving. You're there to solve people's problems. Help them answer questions because if you're not doing it, they're going to go to Google. If they're not going to Google, they're going to go to a chatbot soon enough. Once again, we're taking out of the equation. What assumptions are you making in your work? As you go out working on your projects for this course, what are some of the assumptions that you're making out there about what people want? How they want to get it? Remember all the things that we talked about in terms of things you should be obsessed about. What are these assumptions that you're making? One thing that we always come across is that we have this assumption that people want more content. People want more videos. They want more podcasts, more journalism. They want more and more and more content. Well, guess what? With 4.0, they're going to be getting a lot more of this stuff except it's not going to be coming from us. But the bigger question to all of this is let's ask the hard question here. How do you know that these are even true? It's easy to say that people need more news because we come from the news industry. This is what we do. But how far can we take that conversation? If all we're saying is people need more news, people want more news, people want more videos, how is this even true? How do we even know this is true? Very often, if you work in a newsroom, someone is going to start waving the Google Analytics flag. But you know what? GA is not the answer because it tells you where the traffic is flowing, how the traffic is flowing. It doesn't explain intent. It doesn't tell you why someone even showed up on your website. Why did someone go to you to begin with? You have no idea. Everything is drive-by. So that's a danger in looking at GA and making decisions only on GA. You're missing the biggest and the hardest part of this journey, which is really to understand intent. So remember, ask, listen, and act. Do it over and over again. Ask your readers. Why do you read us? What is the value that we bring to you? Ask them an even harder question. What business do you think we're in and see what happens? Right? You think that they are there to buy your newspapers because they want to read about what's going on in the world? Maybe true, but it's probably not the only factor, right? Remember that newspapers for the longest time, these were funded and sustained by classifieds. That was the entire business. People bought the newspaper because they needed to know how to sell their car or which home to rent. Those were things that newspapers did for them. It was not about world news. That was one component, but it was a much smaller one and definitely one that wasn't profitable. So going back to this again, ask, listen, and act. Find out why people go to you. Get the intent. What questions are you not asking your user? As you're going out building your projects, what do you not yet know about your user's intentions? I think one of the most interesting questions is really what business do you think I'm in? What is the value that I create for you? Be able to ask that. That's a real hard question to ask, and that's a one that really needs to be asked. If you can get that intention clear in your heads, you can build an entire business around that. For example, we talked about community earlier. The community needs very specific things by coming together. They're looking for a way to talk about politics, for example. They need to talk about how to handle rising inflation. There are very specific things that communities need, and if you can understand what that intention is, what is it that they need, you would stop defaulting to content. We all default to content because that's the easiest thing to do. What does someone need? They need another article. Okay, we're journalists. We know how to write articles in 10 minutes, 20 minutes, even now less with the chatbot. So don't default to content. Ask the hard question. What is it that you need solved? Figure out intent, and then go out and build a business. So the best thing that could happen to you in business is that you find viability and utility. I wish that for all of you. The next best thing is, of course, that you fill fast. The sooner you realize that you don't understand what the user's intention is, the better because then you know you're not going to go down that road. Filling fast is filling cheap. You could spend $100,000 billing something that no one wants, or you could try to get something in front of them as quickly as you can so that you know for sure what the intention was and whether you're fulfilling that. So product and business failure happens, and it's a very simple way of looking at this, right? Your business fails because you run out of money. It's as simple as that. The sooner you figure out how to be valuable so that you can make money is the way forward. The sooner you figure that out, the better. Did I see a hand just now from you, Embrine? It was a thumbs up. I was just wondering, yeah. Even better. Okay, let me look at Ashlyn's coming from her research people one more time in the micro view. More attention on their lives, relationships, and to me, exactly, exactly. And less on the macro stuff. We keep selling the macro stuff because it's, I guess, more glamorous. I mean, you know, when I was growing up and getting to journalism, I wanted to be a war correspondent because that was the glamorous thing to do, right? But the real work for journalism is really in figuring out what people need done, what people need solved, figuring out that intention, and then going out and building a service for that. Once again, user-centered, demand-driven, interest-based. And with that, I will close with questions. Almost an o'clock. Almost. Questions? Maybe. Hi. Yes. Can I speak? Okay. I have a quick question. It might sound a little bit numb, but is there any special design for your whole Splice website and the whole color? I just accidentally realized that I have the dress code of Splice today. So I'm wondering, why do you want to choose pink? And I think it's quite attracting for younger audience and just wondering. Yeah. The quick answer to that, actually, the only answer to that really is that this is the only color where people will ask a question about. Strange but true, right? No other color would have invoked a question about the color. So it's one of those funny things. And of course, it's two guys, right? So even better. Stephanie. Yes. Hi. First of all, this was a great presentation. So thank you so much. I have no question about the question around the creator role, especially what that Zuckerberg quote is still working in my head and the role of creators. And I think, especially as journalists, we've been trying to view ourselves a little more distant from the audience, right? And so I think a lot of people have been adjusting to being closer to our audience and being more creator-like. But looking forward to the future, I'm also seeing a lot of discourse around, I don't want to say the death of the creator, but the future being less about creators directly and AI stepping into some of those roles. And so I guess my question is for us, many of us who are starting to adjust to that idea of being creators, what is the role of the creator in journalism? Well, I guess just media in general in the future in your eyes. What a great question. Let me see. There are different ways to try to answer this. Okay, so if I were to look at it from a product point of view, a creator is someone who knows her audience very specifically, is able to work in a small team to deliver what that audience wants. Right? While using the best of the platforms, which is also to say making use of the fact that your distribution is zero, your distribution cost is practically zero. Unless, of course, you're subscribing to MailChimp or something as a platform. But for the most part, your distribution cost is zero. So your ability to spin up something, to try a new channel, to try a new format is infinite. It really comes down to your level of energy. That is really the way creators get started. Because for once in this lifetime, we don't have to buy a printing press to get something out there. And that's the main benefit. So I think there's definitely going to be more space for creators just because every person, again, every creator has a different point of view, a different take, or at least they should to survive. The creative space is very, it's competitive. It's hard. You have no idea why you're being seen today and why you're not being seen tomorrow. Stuff happens in the algo and you have no idea what's going on. So that's the other factor. The algo can make you a superstar or it can make you a nobody instantly. Now, I think the heart of your question, if I'm listening correctly and tell me if I'm wrong, is how much further can you go down this journey of being a creator? How many more years is there left? This space is getting even harder. Let's assume that there are a thousand new creators entering this space every single day. I think that number is probably quite conservative, right? Given how big the internet audience is, this is going to be a space that gets even harder as you go down. Unless, of course, you have a very, very distinct style, a very distinct voice, a very distinct methodology. That's really the only way to survive because at the end of the day, you are at the mercy of an algorithm. If you have no way of standing up and standing out, you're dead. That troubles me a lot, especially for YouTubers, because what you might have spent five years building up could change the very next day. That's where the challenge is. The only way is really to understand who your audience is and what the format is that they want this. Something like newsletters, for example, these tend to be a little stickier because if you have a strong voice and a strong analysis, people give you the right to show up in their inboxes. This is being pushed to people in their inboxes. It's not an algorithm. You don't go to YouTube and then stumble on it. That stumble effect is a huge gamble. Choose the formats that you know have strong staying power. Choose the formats that don't leave you at the mercy of algorithms that you can't predict and you can't learn from. That's helpful. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Who else? I have a question on Stephanie's question. I'm curious with our conversation today with news media. This is something I've been thinking about a lot in terms of news media, news creators and being this own subset within the creator economy. Just curious on your thoughts on that more so just because the fact that they maybe do come from news media like credible sources of information and keeping people informed. Does that give them a unique edge in this sort of over saturation of content and content creators? Does it give them an advantage with trust? Maybe just like maybe how you think about that in terms of news creators coming out of news media. This is interesting because I've been trying to understand this as well. The question that I ask in my head is do the large social platforms favor or not favor news creators in the algorithm? Increasingly, I'm leaning toward ambivalence. They don't care. It doesn't matter to them. If you look at it from their perspective, a post is good as long as it gets engagement. Whether that is true or false information, it makes no difference to them. I think this is something that they've decided on in the past maybe year and a half when they realize that it makes no difference in terms of traffic. People don't gravitate to trusted sources. The data is there to prove that. The platforms have kind of decided that it makes no difference to them, whether they favor or they don't favor. The easiest way is just to treat content as content. If it gets more engagement, great. Everybody wins. In many cases, society loses in these situations. The platforms don't care. I don't believe that there's any kind of positiveness that they extend to news creators at all. So don't count on it. Okay. Here are some ways that you can stay in touch. Drop me an email if you have any questions. I will send this deck over to Jeremy and it's yours to share around. Yeah. Drop me an email if you have any questions, if you have any lingering thoughts. Always happy to hear them. Alan, I want to thank you for such a thought-provoking, provocative session. There's a lot of meaty, challenging ideas in here in terms of our role as journalists, in terms of the challenges that we face with, as you put it, 1,000 new creators joining the ecosystem as you described being a conservative estimate. There are so many different options that consumers have now. Anytime you open up a computer or phone or any kind of thing with a screen, you can find virtually anything you want. So competing for people's attention and developing a relationship, which is ultimately what it's about in terms of getting them to trust you enough, as you put it, to get them to invite you into their inbox or inside your ears or to make an appointment to see your video, whatever you're creating. Yeah, lots of really terrific food for thought. I would second the recommendation of checking out this place material. I told Alan before we started this session today that I see the materials that they put out as real inspiration in terms of design, in terms of sharing the materials from past conferences. You can see all the past presentations, for example, from past conferences, and the podcasts are great because you can hear the speakers, and sometimes they have the full presentations in case you couldn't see there in person. So I really appreciate Alan the sharing that you do, and it's a good model and inspiration and guide for others of us in the ecosystem. So thanks for that generosity and for your generosity in sharing these ideas today, and for putting such great attention to design. I mean, I really love your design. I'm glad Livia mentioned the color, and I think that the design in general is just, again, another point of inspiration for us. We can convey complicated and difficult ideas really beautifully and engagingly. So that's a good model for us to aspire to as well in terms of how we all present our material and our ideas. So for all those reasons, thank you. And on this Thanksgiving week in the US, I want to remind everyone that we are not meeting on Thursday. So you have some time and space, hopefully, to step back. I want to encourage everyone to find one thing, if you can, if you have a little bit of spare time, given that we won't meet on Thursday, if you have a little bit of spare time at some point this week, to find one thing up to this point in the program that you maybe haven't had a chance to catch up to. Maybe you missed part of a session, or maybe you didn't quite get a chance to read something or to dig back into something that someone shared. So I just want to encourage you to pick one thing and dive back in. It's impossible to catch up with everything all the time. But if you pick one thing, at least that's a small positive step forward. So I encourage you to do that. Second, ask would be just to give us feedback. This is a good kind of pivot point for us to make adjustments or to provide something we haven't provided or to do more of something or less of something, keep doing something or stop doing something. So feel free to share your feedback with us so that we know how we can continue building on what we've been doing so far in the program. You can do that through Slack, but email through the survey that we just linked in the chat, whatever ways is most comfortable for you. And lastly, just wish everyone a nice break, a chance to be thankful for whatever it is that you're thankful for and to recharge if you need a little bit of recharge, as some of us might need. So thank you again, Alan, and thanks to everyone for a really lively session. It was such a pleasure to be part of today's session. I feel like everyone really participated and it was so interesting and engaging. So thanks everyone for being part of that. And especially to you, Alan, for quarterbacking us through this. Thanks. Thanks for having me back. See everyone soon. See y'all. Bye. Bye.