---
type: Note
---
# Demystifying financial leverage

[Patrick McKenzie (patio11)](https://bam.kalzumeus.com/author/patio11/) • Nov 11th, 2022 [https://bam.kalzumeus.com/archive/demystifying-financial-leverage/](https://bam.kalzumeus.com/archive/demystifying-financial-leverage)

One of the hardest concepts for non-specialists to wrap their heads around in finance is leverage. It is a bit arcane, requires some facility with math, sounds vaguely spooky, and routinely finds itself near smoking craters asking “Did I do that?” Financial leverage is much easier to understand than many people believe it to be.

**Basic balance sheet math**

Every business has a balance sheet, which contrasts its assets (valuable things it owns) against liabilities (valuable things it owes to other people). The difference between assets and liabilities is equity. Financial businesses will frequently have non-financial assets and liabilities. Ignore those for the sake of simplicity. Ignore the nice building, the computers, the payroll due on Friday for work which has already been completed. Focus just on the _financial_ assets and liabilities, things like “mortgages our bank owns” (asset) and “deposits from customers” (liability). Leverage is the ratio of your liabilities to your equity. Simple division. Fourth grade math. If you have $110 million in assets and $100 million in liabilities you, by subtraction, have $10 million in equity against your $100 million in liabilities. You are said to be levered 10:1.

**Why leverage as a concept is useful**

Finance is in the business of teleporting value over time and space. This is an enormously useful business to be in, but it requires taking various risks. Leverage provides a quick way to quantify how much risk a financial business is taking on. This is easiest to understand in the banking example. Imagine the simplest possible toy version of a bank, which offers only two products: checking accounts and mortgages. The bank’s primary source of value as a business is _maturity transformation_: it teleports value over time to allow someone whose checking account currently has much less in it than the cost of a house to buy a house anyway and gain the benefits of living in it. It does this by putting a bit of the bank’s own capital at risk and _levering_ that capital using the deposits in the checking accounts. This bank is exposed to a variety of risks. One is that, because people can ask for money from their checking accounts at any time, impecunious operation of the bank could cause trouble if the value of the mortgages is impaired just a tiny little bit at a time when people need most of the money in their checking accounts. This has killed many, many banks. (Values of mortgages sometimes decline both for easy-to-understand reasons like the homeowner suddenly not wanting to pay it back and for reasons which are striking to many non-specialists, like prevailing interest rates increasing. This is a long story, which we will not tell today. Back to leverage.) How much impairment to assets can the bank take before its equity is exhausted? If you know the leverage ratio, you can mental math out an approximation trivially. Add one to the leverage ratio. Take the reciprocal. Bam, that’s how much of a decline in the value of the assets wipes out the equity. A 10:1 levered firm is wiped out if assets lose 1/11th (\~9.09%) of their value.

**Managing leverage of one’s customers**

Many financial firms are levered as a matter of course; it is required to do the work. Interestingly, their customers are _also_ often levered. A homeowner who has just made their 20% down payment is levered 5:1. Financial firms frequently have to manage the leverage of their customers, because just like a financial firm gets riskier as the leverage ratio goes up, so do their customer accounts. Past a certain point, the financial firm will take painful actions to delever you. Consider the example of margin accounts at stock brokerages. Google costs about $100 a share these days, so you could buy about 10 shares for $1,000 at your brokerage of choice. Your stock brokerage, though, is willing to _offer you leverage_ on your assets. In return for a fee (and to gain your business, because this is considered a high-saliency feature for the customers of brokerages), they will lend you money against your assets, allowing you to buy more Google than you had cash for. They might allow you 2:1 leverage when you buy stock: your $1,000 buys 20 shares now. Why would you want that? Because you like Google, and want more exposure to it than you can afford. In future worlds where Google successfully sells ads and cancels chat apps, you'd make even more money that way. So: The brokerage lent you money (where it comes from is a wonderful topic for another day) to match your money, and then you sent all that money to the person who previously owned those 20 shares, and now they are all yours. But you now owe $1,000 to your brokerage, and are 1:1 levered. And this is fine… for now. In some unfortunate future universes, perhaps one in which Google runs out of chat apps to cancel, the price of Google drops by more than 50%. In this case, the value of your stock is now below your debt to the brokerage. Your equity has been vaporized. But let's not go immediately to that calamitous case. Googlers are, even now, working on more chat apps to refill the cancelable chat app inventory. Perf is just around the corner. Say the price of Google is now $80. It only took a moderate hit. Now your brokerage has a few choices, and none of them are fun, because someone has lost money and that can never be made fun. The value destruction has already happened, principally at Google. The results of that destruction are being communicated to you, because you chose to be a part-owner of their business, partially using other people's money. One thing your brokerage could do is to ask you nicely to de-lever. You’re not 1:1 levered, which is relatively safe. You’ve got $1,600 in assets against $1,000 in debt, so $600 in equity, so \~1.67:1 levered. To bring that leverage ratio down, the brokerage could potentially issue a **margin call**. This is anachronistic lingo (you, if you are reading this and do not work in finance, are unlikely to actually get a telephone call) to require you to either deposit more cash or sell stock. Either of these will decrease your leverage ratio. If you sell $400 worth of stock, you now have $1,200 in assets against $600 in debt. This is 1:1 leverage. If you deposit $400 of shares, you now have $2,000 in assets against $1,000 in debt. You’re back to 1:1 leverage. If you deposit $400 and pay back the loan, you have $1,600 in assets against 600 in debt. You’re now 0.6:1 levered; even safer than 1:1. Why the discrepancy in the impact of $400? Because leverage measures risk, and depositing $400 in shares _dilutes your risk by adding assets that are themselves an incremental source of risk_. Repaying the loan, on the other hand, strictly decreases your risk.

**Mismanaging customer leverage**

Why do brokerages care about customer leverage? Because if they do not promptly de-leverage customers, the margin loans are unlikely to get repaid. The risk of the stock decline has, effectively, been transferred from the customer to the broker. The losses it is incurring are eating into the equity _of the brokerage_ now. In principle, brokerages can pursue customers for bad margin debt. In practice, this is rarely going to restore them to whole, particularly not for retail customers, because the financial picture of someone whose brokerage account has lost all value is rarely rosy elsewhere. Brokerages take substantial efforts to avoid losing money on margin accounts. In addition to the capitalistic reason to do this, their regulators are acutely aware of the risk that overextended customers pose to the brokerage. You can sort of think of society as being the broker’s broker: if we do not manage your leverage, because you do not manage your customer’s leverage, your losses eat into _our_ equity. So we are supportive of you taking a carefully measured amount of risk, because risk makes your business possible, but will be cross if you take an impecunious amount and then stick us with the losses. Brokerages really do lose money on margin accounts sometimes! It’s relatively rare. Large losses usually have [a complicated story](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-04-29/china-firm-s-plunge-is-said-to-cost-interactive-brokers-millions). But since they happen, brokerages spend a lot of effort carefully managing their balance sheets such that the hit does not impair their solvency.