---
type: Meeting-Note
---

I don't judge and I don't, but these guys should now make the transition into teaching their skills. And I think they should teach internationally. They might be the only organization that does video documentary. With this level of success and this level of like there, I walked around parts of Kathmandu with their rock and they are just massive celebrities. Everybody knows who they are because they do these little stories about little people who nobody's ever heard of until they see the documentaries. So they're high quality too. Hi Maggie. Yeah. Super. Hey Maggie. Good. Are you talking about, what is it? The carnie? The Nepalese? Yeah, those guys are, those guys are amazing. I've always, we've always had them. I think we first met them at Beta 2019, right Alan? Yeah. I think we still have that video that Tina Hsu made of them. I think they were part of that reel of them saying we're just launching this thing. It's weird how many things launched at Beta 2019. The Kuma podcast, Hernekata, I think a couple of other things. But Monica told you that they're applying, right? And not as judges. Yeah. And I'm sorry, I wanted to get more people out to you as judges and as entries, but I was just saying to Monica that I think these guys should get to the next level and start teaching their skills internationally. I think they would be a huge resource for anybody who's starting out, you know, doing video in any form. And it doesn't just have to be news. They get it. These guys understand documentary for YouTube audiences. Yeah, that's what we've seen with a lot of applicants. There are so many that have potential, but they still need those skills. And so we definitely see the need. Exactly. Kamal is a cinematographer and he's a technical guy. He understands miking and cameras and multiple shots with a very simple setup. And they usually do six week stories. They're up on a mountain ledge. They're hiking in like, you know, neck deep snow. They're a badass. And and Bidia has been a journalist and a presenter on BBC. So they both come from that BBC sort of hardcore training. And I think, you know, it's it's time they started to. Maybe add a second product, which is teaching and workshopping and training. Oh, that's amazing. Well, you know, one thing that we're finding, like Monica said, is that there's so many people with a lot of potential and YouTube is not putting a lot of money into this. The prize right now is only a thousand dollars a person. Which is bizarre. I guess place gives bigger prizes than that. Yes, we give ten thousand dollars, you know, typically 20 in our last solutions challenge. So, you know, we are really pressing them with like we've got a hard, hard cap on this. Like we could take it out of what we're paying you to run the operation. And, you know, we kind of are already already emptying up. But so I said, what else can you offer? Can you offer training? Can you offer equipment? So this may turn into a program, I'm hoping. You know, some kinds of awards for the winners, but also a program to develop the people who have the potential level up. And so your folks is it I've seen it written, Hanukkah. Hanukkah would be great to be teachers in that. So. Lots of ideas. So talking about leveling up, let's talk about Nano, because you have your own little fellowship there. Oh. No. 60. 30. You. No. You. You. You. Huh? You. No. You. So a barrier to entry this time also was. I think comes from a splice bias, which is, you know, the idea is don't make content. Don't use this to make content. Nobody needs more content. Find specific ways where it be content, you know, and if you're throwing it into the algorithm, nobody cares, nobody can find it. And worse, you're not reaching relevance. You're not reaching people to actually need it on. You're working with demand and not with supply and not demand. So from a list of 60 to call down to 13 based on not this person, in fact, we have, you know, but quarter of the way through the process, we blanked out the. Any name, any gender, any country, and we just looked at, you know, the pictures, so as not to bias ourselves and we realized we were cutting out all the content. I'm going to make a news aggregator. No, but I think we're countering that bias, you know, and we're we're going to, you know, I think we were wrong in doing that. And the point, in fact, for us isn't to judge them on the content of their pitch. But it's to be able to just bring them in low barrier to entry and just talk. OK. Are you still focusing on solo founders? They're solo creators. Yes. Yes. Big time. Yeah. Right. Right. Right. Although your coaching is very valuable. And even if you did cohort based coaching, I think like everybody go out and do this and come back and tell tell us how it went. Have you tried Patreon? Have you tried a membership? I don't know. Yeah, we're we already have that built into our coaching landing page. We have, in fact, a couple of times I think we we have had paid clients. You know, Alan's. Alan's is proper, like certified coaching. Mine is more product and business and user mentorship. But I you know, for whatever reason, we haven't like thrown up that that metered thing yet. But yeah, I think there's a lot of that. There's a lot of appetite for it. In fact, just this morning, Alan and I discovered that the reason people come to us is not because how do I make an L.M. or how do I make a chatbot or how do I you know, you can go to anybody else for that. And in fact, you can go to YouTube for that. People come to us. We realize for three things. And that's consulting. How do I take what I'm thinking about and make that into a business? Exactly. How do I understand what I do? My content. How do I turn my content into a business? So consulting, coaching and community. Right. Unfortunately, they're all begin with C, so it sounds very glib, but. Oh, no, I know everything. Everything begins with a C collaboration, you know, creativity. Right. It's all C. Yeah. Well, that's exactly how you envisioned it in the beginning. Right. And oh, you were going to I mean, my understanding is you're going to identify them, kind of walk them through and help them see what they can be and. And help them get there, introduce them to a tools that can fill in some of the blanks. Oh, I don't think we'd be introducing them to the tools. I think we would we would learn from them what what tools were there. The idea of our only value add is is not a tools at all. Our value add is you. We can help you turn this into a business which we know how to do. Right. With a community and we'll coach you along the way. And this was the idea behind School of Splice back in twenty twenty one. I think we managed it really badly, but it it went really well. I think it was tremendous. The fact that people didn't want YouTube learning. They wanted, hey, I want to learn with you guys. Help me turn my thing into a into a business. But I also want to learn with this community and I want to continue this coaching as we go along. But it was also right after the pandemic. So here, I think it's similar. I want us to be there in the way that we know how and in the stuff that we don't know, which is most of it. We want to be able to turn to experts, you know. So, you know, go to the journey for this and go to Monica for that. We would bring them in as part of the program, which is, again, the School of Splice model. Right. And it's too bad that you're starting now because everybody else is kind of going away. Although you still have your everybody's still connected in our night cohort. But I was imagining that Nikita could have done a monthly. Here's the tool that, you know, you can use to go that direction. Here's one. For those who want to use it for delivery of your newsletters, automate your delivery of your newsletters. But. Yeah. OK. And I don't know if the the monthly stipend went to just your operating costs or you set it aside. To run this program in the futures, you have. Do you have the funding? Yeah. Yeah. Right. Well, the whole idea we were trying to. Subsidize you guys to do something that you wanted to do anyway and give you a boost to try something experimental. So. I like the sound of that. OK. OK. That was your time. Yeah. Reset time after splice beta rate. Yeah. After the year. I mean, we we needed that time off. We we really need December. We call it PBS the post beta stress disorder. Yeah. Yeah. So. No, I get it. So I think. Yeah, I think I'm I think it's in a way I think we're quite happy with the fact that we're able to say, you know, this this initial part of Nano. The first part. So the second part, the first part was successful in that we were able to we were able to source appetite for it and we got this flood of appetite from from some people outside our our, you know, splice community, which was important for us. The second part failed in that I think we took too long to follow up and say, hey, guys, now let's all talk about your idea together. And I think people have either moved on or are still coming back after the break or, you know, maybe that maybe that that appetite has faded. And as Alan was saying, I think we weren't specific about what is it that you get from this, you know, and I think Alan was saying you met somebody recently who said, I, you know, I don't care if you're not giving me money to build this. It's not about the money. I just want to hang out with you guys and learn how to make this into business and get some, you know, community and coaching along the way. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, we've known that there's an appetite for this, especially for what you all do. You can see it every year in Splice Beta. I thought you could find 13 folks from Splice Beta. So I was really not the same old, same old. Yeah. OK. And then I referred a few people from the states. A couple of them have quit. A couple of them have grown. So they're not solo, solo entrepreneurs anymore. But maybe some are still interested. One of my favorites is probably not in your pool of doing something different, but it's, you know, links I would teach at you. Did she apply? Did she get in touch? So it started back when G-Chat was a thing, and it was just someone who discovered sort of the wild and wonderful areas of the Internet. And she just made a little newsletter, an email newsletter, and it grew to thousands of folks. And then she began to add in a little bit more analysis and everything. And it's one of my favorite things to look at each week, because like I heard from her about this whole Mormon trad wife phenomenon on the Internet first, like months before anybody else got onto it. And now you're a Mormon trad wife. I mean, I am, for sure. How could you tell? Yes. Right. And who else? Like, and people like, I don't know, you met Ian Kennedy at Media Party, right? He's like you guys. Did I? In Chicago? I don't. In Chicago, yeah. He's been to everyone. He was born in Japan. He was the first, he and his father were like the first bloggers. His father worked at Sony and made a blog about food in Japan, Japanese restaurants. And then he and his father worked together. So they were the very first. He was the first person I ever knew who was on the Internet. And he's been very entrepreneurial since. And so he just like comes up with with ideas like that. And his latest one at our last media party was how to watermark original text. You know, they're doing this to establish provenance and to tell them something has been scraped and reused by A.I., for example, or even just simply plagiarized. And he and Sanuta, Sanuta thought this was brilliant and it's been working with him on it. Anyway, he's he's the kind of person that would be really fun to work with. Well, anyway, and there's a this is the one I was thinking of who actually grew. There was a woman who's a black news entrepreneur in Baltimore and her. She's doing so much with A.I. She was just like by herself. It was sort of like a one woman operation. Very much news you can use about the community and news with the community. Like she would like your local hero. That was her teacher. And, you know, just feature somebody who's done something really interesting in the community. I think it's like Paris or something unexpected, like the name of the city. I'll look up. But in the meantime, she's gotten grants from like folks like Knight who see her community value. And I think now she's more than one person, but she was using A.I. in really interesting ways to just expand what she was doing. Beyond the capacity of one person. So those are the. Yeah, I will look her up again. But people I was like, you got it, you got to connect with Splyce for the NATO program. OK, go ahead, Margo. No, I was just going to ask for a timeline. You know, I love those technicality and details and kind of see what the next six months will be like. So if you have something like that prepared already, it would be great to have. And if you could add any milestones to it, you know, the first six months have been a little bit more lenient, not lenient. But, you know, we don't check in as often. And it's fine not to have these calls. But I think maybe just a little bit of progress and kind of knowing where you'll be at next month and and so on would be really great. That's actually a great idea. And it's something we started to do in the beginning with. Yeah. But I think we we need to get back to it. Yeah. Yeah, of course. So whenever you have that, that would be great. And another note on Splyce Beta. I know a couple of fellows helped out with the clinics. Do you get any feedback? Did you do any sort of survey on how those clinics went with the participants? No. Well, it was questions like, you know, how did we one question we ask every every year is about the clinics and how valuable they were in isolation. And, you know, this was our fifth beta. And every single year we we say two things. One is that people want more clinics. So this last year we added an entire extra day of clinics. And now people want more clinics. I'm scared to like actually we we're actually nervous about what I'm you know, build that entire appointment calendar, the bookable thing. And you put that out. We're scared because they get booked out in like maybe, you know, an hour. And so we try and pre release them to people we think actually need them. And every year we say, hey, people want more clinics. And then Alan and I, either Alan or I end up saying at least once in the year, we say we should do an entire beta, just clinics. You know, no sessions, just clinics. And then we go. And then, you know, we build the next. And we add more clinics. But there's this huge thirst for specific. Tell me how to do this thing. I think. Correct me if I'm wrong, Alan, but I could break the clinics up into two kind of users. One is tell me how to do this thing that I'm already doing, but do it better. And the other one is tell me how to do this thing that I want to start to learn. I don't I know nothing about it. Yeah. Yeah, that's so interesting. You know, we borrowed your idea of clinics for media party. Because because people were coming up after talks and saying, do you have time to sit with me? And so we we tried to formalize it, especially with our night fellows. We thought it was a great way to to deploy their skills. And same thing. People like I want more and I want more after this. Can we continue? Yeah. So I think that's you know, that's something that we want to be able to do for this community over the years. We've we've had some amazing clinics. And they're all, you know, almost every single one of those titles were very specific about the type clinic titles and session titles. And almost every single one of them is how to do blah, blah, blah, you know, or talk to me about how to build this or how to start that. Yeah. So, you know, I think that's something we want to build in. We know that that's a part going to be a part of nano as well. Yeah, because the reason I ask is we want to follow through with those people that the fellows talk to and see if there has been any progress on that. So if you don't mind, you know, I can ask the fellow Matias and Uta and Nikita, I believe were the ones that participate in that to reach out to the participants that they talk to. Of course. I mean. Absolutely. Yeah. Do you ever do that in the past with the clinics? Sometimes. Well, thank you. Yeah. Yeah. We we also leave the we we don't have any sort of intellectual property over these things. We leave them alone. You're free to keep going. I know Matias and Hidaya continue the conversation, you know, further on. I think that was that was fantastic. And sometimes, you know, coaches and clinicians will come back to us and say, hey, is it OK if I, you know, reach out to this person who came to me for it? And we're like, we don't own those relationships. We don't own any of that. You just do your thing. And we're happy to, in fact, introduce you to more people. One of the things that we once talked about. And I want to be able to understand how to. I will sustain this in a in a in a good way is to try and you know, people have always wanted more beta after beta. And they're like, why do I have to wait for this damn thing once a year? And so I wonder, you know, we talk a lot about keeping this. Sometimes we've spoken about keeping the clinics going as just a thing that you can do. Why is it just Alan and I who are coaching and mentoring? Why should we not have, you know, clinics are in demand? Be interesting to test the appetite online. Is a clinic something you can book with, you know, Maggie at the IPI Congress, for example? You know, can you book a clinic with Monica in media party next next year? So how do we maybe clinics is an ongoing ongoing thing? You know, that would be incredible. Splice clinics at different conferences. You know, you're not being there, but you having ambassadors. Yeah. Yeah. I know the new to raved about her clinic. She she was very excited to come back and tell us about it. Oh, yes. She spoke to the American State Department guy. And she was like she was laughing. And he was like, I'm telling you way more than I should. You know, sharing state secrets and Sanuta's. You know how she is. But. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's a whole nother thing. So, yeah. I mean, this might be something that Alan and I just build. Maybe. You know, splice clinics is just. You know, it's I think it's about time we heard that community voice and maybe, you know, clinics are not just something that belong to beta. But they can be splice wherever you go. So, you know. Yeah, we'd be careful about who we who we you know, we would we be careful about who the clinicians were just the way we are at beta. But yeah, we need to figure out a way to pay these folks. Maybe there's even a nominal like fee. I don't know. Even just like a value. I don't know. I don't know why I'm talking about this, but it has nothing to do with nano. But even like five bucks, you know, like a no show. Yeah. Fiction and a notion of value. Exactly right. So anyway. Well, those are my only questions, Maggie. OK. Thank you for that. And any more. You know, if you need us to send you a list of those clinics, I'd be happy to do that. And if you have any testimony that you want to share, like three or four that you think are stellar, those would be great for our reporting to as a general sponsorship that we give to slice. So just about the beta in general or. Yeah, we have tons. If you want to combine, you know, different things that people said. You know, you could. Oh, yeah, we have them somewhere. We have this giant page of. But, you know, most of those are on the website. I just I did. Yeah, I stuck them on the website, so I'd be happy to send you some. But we you I mean, you could just take whatever you like of Splyce beta dot com. Yes, indeed. Yes, that would be excellent. Nice. Thank you. Thank you. But everybody was so thrilled to have their portrait in pink this year. You know, I'm having to now try and think of different ways to do these do these portraits in different ways. Every year is some crazy thing. I think last year we had a David Bowie kind of look. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway. Yes, I'm just taking some very quick notes for our thing. So send Monica at fine lines. With milestones. Yeah. And then you want some. You want some endorsements and quotes. And you already have the the report that Alan said. What else, guys? What do you what do you have for us in terms of criticism, in terms of suggestions, in terms of like what what are you hoping to see more of? Just more nano in general. I know. But. Yeah. No, I was thinking I was thinking of that as well, the way you described it as as bringing along a small cohort of. Individual creators and creating the community and seeing how you can help them along. And the opportunity to use A.I. to amplify what one person can do. I know you guys are not the experts, but we have a stable of plenty of them. If you want to do. Set up things we can certainly help introduce you, but, you know, plenty as well. I'm. Looking at myself, I was thinking maybe I need to take a coaching course from Alan to show. Yes, to to better. I think it would help me foster our night fellows better. And we just let you have free rein because you're so experienced at what you do. But I think even even the president, especially our president, but needs some sort of regular accountability. And I think that if we pushed pushed harder, that would have kept the momentum going. So let's try to do that for the second half. Actually, do at least the email check ins and then maybe a call. I'm willing to get up early. The sun has come up while we have been talking. So to do that.

**Maggie: I thought Nano was one of the Knight projects that had the biggest potential. For actually, you know, Knight is about sparking innovation. And these are all the little sparks. And so I'm still still hoping to see something pop up.**

Yeah, no, the sparks are there. We need to build that fire. I think set it all alight. Exactly right. And just a quick reminder of Maggie, whenever you you know, I know I know you're talking about it now in its avatar as a coaching call. But whenever you want to if ever you want to revisit that I see after consulting gig that you spoke about way back in when we met in Chicago. We're always ready. We have some ideas around that, as you as you probably guessed. But yeah, say more. OK. You know, way back when you were saying, you know, this is where we we do that big diagram and we were. Yes, OK. And then you guys and then you guys went and scored some major money, which you were worried about. And I think you got old money, you got new money. And I think back then you were a little. We still haven't we still haven't gotten it. It's the shared services thing, which has now if you want. Well, I'll update you quickly, then we'll go back to what you're saying. We got the research money. Right. And we did this this beautiful research and report and everything. And then we we have made this merger with Code for Africa, which. And will enable us to do a whole lot more with the with the tech side and especially in Africa. So we are going to do our first sort of physical pilot of the shared services in Africa with Code for Africa. But for now, we're asking for money to revamp our entire ICFJ IJ net website to make that the hub, a virtual hub. And really leverage that that network of active users and connect them, allow them access to resources, make it sort of marketplace of people who are offering services, people who need services. And subsidizing that. So that's where we are now. So back to you. What you say? Well, one part of this idea. Was when you mentioned, you know, talking about ICFJ and the president and you and stuff, one part of this why I jumped in then was was to revisit the consulting gig around. The mission around how to productize the Knight Fellows, how to productize, you know, how to have that life for night. Well, beyond the fellowships and how you used IJ net, how you used these resources, not just the talent pool, but what the fellowships, what the fellows built, how you can bring them together, what the what the awards and mean, what the, you know, essentially, I think there's a lot of potential wasted potential. Within the Knight program and within the IJ net program. And this is me trying to remember all of the stuff we talked about back in Chicago, you and I. And so that's the that's one part of it that I think, you know, Alan and I would be able to do justice to and perhaps help you map out in a weird way. How to productize this so that you were able to do more with with these resources that you've built out over, I don't know how many years, you know, you have these huge archival resources. And how do you and we keep referring to it in the All Fellows Call, we talk about how the fellows aren't just a community, but they are, in fact, already a very loosely structured shared services. And so we have to figure out how to do that. And so we have to figure out how to do that. And so we have to figure out how to do that. How do you make it work? How do you systematize it? And how do you codify it? That's, I think that's basically this is me pitching to you, re-pitching to you what we talked about back in Chicago. And the second part, of course, is conversation that I wanted to have with you after this. And, of course, Alan, you're welcome to stick around, but I know it's like super late for you. Manically long days. So seriously, buddy, whenever I'm always happy to. But the second part is that, you know, when you when I saw the ICFJ+ thing jump in, I was like, hey, man, shared services. That was, in fact, the first our first nano pitch to you. And then Sharon came back with, why should we give them a fellowship for doing something they already do? But the only missing part there was that we don't already do it. We do it for free. We don't do this. Our consulting is not shared services. Our consulting is, in fact, a big waste because we do consulting for one entity that's funded by their funder, usually. And then we do something for another entity. And we in an ideal world, we'd be doing that layer. Like, what do we call it? Splice zero. And the idea was that we don't give a shit about the name. It doesn't matter. Sharon had this big thing about zero. It doesn't matter. That's not the relevant bit. The relevant bit is that we want to be able to do what we do once and have multiple systems and entities use those resources and that training. And that knowledge. Why should we build Matia a website? By the way, I've already talked to him about, you know, what do we do? Host fellowship. What happens to new alchemists? You know, do we leave Matia to figure it out and say, all right, buddy, you're on your own. Go build this shitty. And I said this to him. He's my friend. So, you know, I'm you know, he he all due respect. Are you going to go build this horrible little notion website of man? I'm so dying to do it for you. Not because you're my friend, but because you're a fellow, but because you need to get to zero with your website. And then we need to get you to starting point with your business plan and then we need to get you leveled up here with your research and then your second format or your third format. I agree. And that that to me is is one of the biggest weaknesses of the fellowship. Is what happens after the money goes away. And so I don't know if you've you've had your sessions with Gia, but we've had, you know, offered regular sessions with Gia Castello, who's brilliant. She's definitely up the splice DNA. And she works with the fellows about their sustainability pathway. What are you going to do after you're done? How can we fundraise? How can we identify revenue streams? Let's map it out. And then systematically comes back with them. Like, have you contacted these people? Let's have a one pager ready to go in case someone asks, you know, some funding opportunity comes up. Bang. You can apply immediately. And Matia and Sanuta were just blown away. I don't know if Matia had had he had been talking to somebody else and so he didn't feel like he needed her. But when... Probably me. It was Rashad, it was Osli and and it was Jacopo Ottaviani. Well, yeah, I mean, Jacopo, we're massive friends. We're really close. You know, Alan and I and Jacopo and he's somebody we've always wanted to build with. You know, the idea is. I'm like, you know, you keep news news, even just, you know, news alchemists for as an example. I don't know why it isn't already a you guys know how to do workshops, news alchemists. The the slack group was just one application of what you do. You should be able to begin a consulting service that actually has, you know, outcome based workshops for your news team. You guys understand how to do that. Matias, the journalism, Osli is the workshop. Right. So, sorry, you told Matia this. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, we he's he and I have been talking now that we're in the same time zone. You know, it helps. So I keep seeing these, you know, over and over in our work. Alan and I see this, you know, here in the Qatar is really good at what they do. They suck at being a business or they suck at being a non advertising, non grant business, you know. Every single time Alan and I talk, we're like, I wish we could do this, this, this and this for that business. But. You know, we're consultants, we need to be paid, we need to figure out a system of being paid. That isn't just to be fair grants, you know. So we did a whole thing for Puma podcast. But our commission, our fee was from a grant that they got from IMS. Right. Right. And that's that's part of the shared services. One of the models, you know, go to MDIF or Gates Foundation and say you're giving grants to these folks, but they really need someone to Sherpa them along and we can do that as a service. Yeah. So, so you're. Sorry. Yes. OK. I saw I saw your email this morning, so that's in my inbox. I haven't gotten a chance to check it yet, but yeah, I'll let you know if there are any issues, but I'm sure it's. Yeah, I'll be in touch. And I promise that January, January reports are going to literally come at the end of January. So that's the way to deserve. Alan, go to sleep. I'm also going to. I just before you hit the pillow. I'm going to make an ask for one of you to be a judge on the YouTube things because we we don't have anybody good from Asia. So you two can discuss it among yourselves. OK. Oh, OK. Yes, you are. Yes, you are. It's the pretty much. You're there. OK. Good night. Good night. Thanks for staying up. Also leaving, Maggie. You're welcome. You're welcome. You're welcome. You're welcome.