---
type: Note
date: 2024-06-24
---
# International Media Conference Manila

Mon, June 24th, 2024

- International Media Conference in Manila

- 8:30am keynote panel discussion

 - Irene Liu — What I find remarkable is that in these opening remarks, we're hearing a lot of the word audience and user and I think that that is a statement to a recognition that we need to be user first and that, you know. There's been a lot of dialogue, especially when we're talking about things like miss and disinformation content online harms. Um, this sort of focus on the responsibility of the platforms and tech companies and I think that more and more we need to think about partnership and a recognition that ultimately the biggest change that we've seen in the evolution, whether you're talking about.

 - Moving from print to radio to TV to web one to social. Media to web 3 and now intergenerative, AI is that technology is a mediation point. And more so, and what has changed more than anything else is that the user is completely in control and empowered. They decide how they want to get information and what is strange is that none of these technologies have actually replaced any of them. The print still exists radio TV, online, social media chats, everything and now generative AI. And so this focus on the user is going to be increasingly important to me that the most important shift and in my role at the international fund for public interest media, we are looking at.

 -**Yes, the support and focus is on helping individual media outlets to survive and thrive, especially in the Global South. However, we are looking at this from the point of view of ensuring a strong information ecosystem more broadly, so we aren't just focused on individual [news] organizations and the survival of individual organizations. We're focused on ensuring that there is a healthy information ecosystem, the people in these markets that we operate in. And so if you're thinking about it from that very broad point of view of generative AI, it is going to be completely transformative.**

 - You know, people may say they may not be actively using ChatGPT every single day or at all and yet generative AI is in there. Daily lives every single day anytime you hit an autocomplete. In your email or you go online to search, you're or on social media, an algorithm and AI is helping you to figure out your connection to the world and so generative AI is something that is just going to be completely. I think that you know in this is my own personal view, but I. Think that in the next 5 years.

 - The connection between any particular news organization or brand is going to be even further distanced to the actual user. There will be um spaces that are AI mediated. There will be you know, in this world where there's lack of trust in institutions, people are going to rely on their family and friends. And they will be relying on information that's sent through chatbots. We've already seen this. They're going to increasingly be interested in what influencers and content creators have to say we've seen this in several elections. This is the big year of elections. You know, in the Philippines. We saw how Nano influencers were able to shape the voter that kind of the and connect with people in a way that traditional news wasn't necessarily able to do, politicians now are able to directly connect with their users.

 - But even so, that is mediated through a platform or through an algorithm. So I think that 1 thing that is going to be really important as we think through the ethics of using these tools and how newsrooms incorporate, this is a broader view of exactly where the news and where journalism will fit into this broader information ecosystem is the focus going to be on the creation of information. And then finding ways to ensure that it can be funded that is sustainable and that it gets into the hands of those who need that information to make choices in their lives.

 - Are they going to focus on the production or are they going to also be trying to navigate through all the different platforms to get to that end? User and? Which is an important issue for us and the most important issue is, how do you fund this? How do you fund the hard work? I'm collecting information and translating the real world into the ones and zeros that will be used by all these different platforms, and how do we make sure that those who are doing that hard work? We are able to have a sustainable way to do this journalism is hard. It's expensive in many countries, it's dangerous, so we need to make sure that that model can thrive into the future, while also acknowledging that ultimately the user at the end, it is going to be the one who determines whether or not. The information that you're creating. It is actually going to be translated into action into their own lives or into their society.