---
type: Note
---
# Intrigue Media raises US$1.75 million investment round - Intrigue

- Highlights

 - What makes the Intrigue brand different? We’re founded and run by former diplomats, whose experienced sensibilities animate and power the DNA of Intrigue’s flagship product and other offerings.  Reflecting on their time as foreign service officers stationed around the globe, and their experience at elite education institutions in the UK and US, co-founders John Fowler and Helen Zhang arrived at a simple but profound conclusion: leaders need a timely and fresh information source to navigate an increasingly complex and fragmented world – a world quite different than the one they learned about in grad school. John and Helen saw a market opportunity for a next-gen media brand that packages global expertise for the non-expert in a way that engages, entertains, and informs. If Morning Brew and The Economist had a newsletter baby, it’d be ‘International Intrigue’: combining the rising professional demo play of ‘Morning Brew’ with the global coverage and depth of The Economist.  How we do it We’re diplomats, not journalists. We’ve been in the room. We speak five languages. We’ve briefed world leaders. That means we bring a unique perspective and actionable insights that folks can’t get anywhere else.

 - What makes the Intrigue brand different?

We’re founded and run by former diplomats, whose experienced sensibilities animate and power the DNA of Intrigue’s flagship product and other offerings.  Reflecting on their time as foreign service officers stationed around the globe, and their experience at elite education institutions in the UK and US, co-founders John Fowler and Helen Zhang arrived at a simple but profound conclusion: leaders need a timely and fresh information source to navigate an increasingly complex and fragmented world – a world quite different than the one they learned about in grad school. John and Helen saw a market opportunity for a next-gen media brand that packages global expertise for the non-expert in a way that engages, entertains, and informs. If Morning Brew and The Economist had a newsletter baby, it’d be ‘International Intrigue’: combining the rising professional demo play of ‘Morning Brew’ with the global coverage and depth of The Economist.

How we do it

We’re diplomats, not journalists. We’ve been in the room. We speak five languages. We’ve briefed world leaders.\
- What makes the Intrigue brand different? We’re founded and run by former diplomats, whose experienced sensibilities animate and power the DNA of Intrigue’s flagship product and other offerings.  Reflecting on their time as foreign service officers stationed around the globe, and their experience at elite education institutions in the UK and US, co-founders John Fowler and Helen Zhang arrived at a simple but profound conclusion: leaders need a timely and fresh information source to navigate an increasingly complex and fragmented world – a world quite different than the one they learned about in grad school. John and Helen saw a market opportunity for a next-gen media brand that packages global expertise for the non-expert in a way that engages, entertains, and informs. If Morning Brew and The Economist had a newsletter baby, it’d be ‘International Intrigue’: combining the rising professional demo play of ‘Morning Brew’ with the global coverage and depth of The Economist.  How we do it We’re diplomats, not journalists. We’ve been in the room. We speak five languages. We’ve briefed world leaders.