---
type: Meeting-Note
date: 2024-01-22
---
# Meeting Danny Yong – ICF Coaching Journey

Mon, January 22nd, 2024

- [Links](Links.md)

 - [Jeff Bezos' 2016 Letter to Amazon Shareholders.md](Mon,%20January%2022nd,%202024/Jeff%20Bezos'%202016%20Letter%20to%20Amazon%20Shareholders.md)

- 10:00am met with Danny Yong

 - I got in touch with Danny because I noticed last year that he has a PCC credential, and I thought it would be interesting to catch up with him and understand how he's made the most of that journey. Danny has been a coach with ICF credentials for about 10 years now and has worked with accelerators and entrepreneurs, including some accelerator programs with the Malaysian government. In his current role at IMS, he coaches around 30 of their partners worldwide. Danny refers to his approach as transformational coaching, which is similar to my concept of change coaching. He works with entrepreneurs and is flexible in his approach to mentorship versus coaching, tailoring it to the client's needs. This adaptability is fascinating. Danny mentioned that the coaching space is welcoming, with many opportunities. However, the challenge lies in the lack of recognition of ICF credentials and a clear understanding of what coaching entails. This presents an opportunity to discuss and clarify these aspects. I need to determine how to market myself effectively in this space, how to highlight what ICF does, the standards it upholds, the learning it provides, and the significance of credentials. This information should be included on the website and in how we describe our work.

- Audio memos

 - Coaching Yvette Kwok 1/22/2024 Our plan is now we have to build up a whole new website for the initial and before July. So- Before July, oh my God. That's before July, yeah. We calculate the cash flow and everything. And I think we have, we need a new product for, I mean, like the July is a deadline and we need to use that new website and it started to generate the organic conversion on our website. And that's not just that the new website because we plan to, you know, plucking the like blue lana and also walkies to rebuild our paywall and to rebuild our CRM systems and all the automations. So it's basically like a whole new product combined with a whole new operation system together. But in the same time, without in-house engineering and without in-house product manager, I have to cooperate with like a team. We have a team like in, I mean like in US and the team in Australia and everywhere. So it's basically like this. And in the same time, it means like everything I did last year had to be like, you know, turn away. It's like we have like a switch to another road. We need, you know, it's so hard for me to tell that's a, I have a true belief that that's a very good direction but I am like, to be honest, for me, it's like a sudden switch. And sometimes I feel like I can't find the right pace. I mean, by myself too. And also in the nation, I feel like for me, the thing, I mean, like it used to be, I co-pilot with Lulu and we only need to speak to our, I mean, board member and that's a very easy relationship. But for now, it's like, I need to speak to the CEO and to the chief of staff and to the CEO who back to life suddenly after CEO on board and also to the board member, to our biggest investor and who is based in Hong Kong. So I cannot avoid him anymore. So it was like, suddenly, I mean like, wow, so much things. And in the same time, you know, my original plan was maybe I can slowly develop my skill of leadership and my skill of management. Maybe I think in three years, I think that's already a very ambitious plan. I'd be like in three years, but now it feels like, I know you can't do it in three years. You have to do like maybe in one year or in one project. So it's like, oh my God, it's like a lot of things. Yeah. So what is the one thing that comes to your mind about how you feel about this, all these changes? Actually, the first thing is I feel so excited because the first thing I see is it's like a four of opportunities. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, it's like a lot of potential and I feel like, wow, I can do so many things. That's actually the first thing that comes to my mind. But after that one second, it comes with like, how can I do that? And I think the first emotion come to me is like, I'm so afraid of, I mean like to fail or I mean like to fail myself or to fail others done. That's also another thing. So some questions about myself and about whether I'm really ready to that. And another thing is, I don't know why it was like, I talked to Jing last time, I told him like, I never received so many negative feedback in my career. Like when I was in the initial, like about my leadership, about my communication style, about my management, about my speed of working. So it was like, that's a huge shock on my confidence. Sure, of course, I can understand that. Absolutely, I think maybe you haven't had this opportunity to grow the way you have as well, right? Yeah, so if anything, I think your time at Initium has been powerful because it was always about pushing you to do something different, to try something different, right? So the chance of growing requires you to obviously step out and do something that's a bit scary sometimes. But what are you most scared of? It's hard to figure out which one is the most scary. Yeah, I mean like, I kind of remember that I told you like before Initium, actually I worked in many different industries, like digital marketing, like Metaslip, it's not like a Web3 community, also like NGOs. And I've been an activist myself and I also had my own startup like two years ago. So yeah, I'm not scared of anything. Yeah, you told me all that, which is why I find your your career so amazing, because you've done all this cool stuff. But I realized a pattern, I mean, happened again and again in the past is like, every time when I really need to learn how to be a true leader, seriously, I kind of like, you know, no, no, no, I am gonna go, go away and find another amazing project to start from zero to one. So I'm really good, good at it, you know, starting from zero to one, or from one to, or maybe from one to 10, I'm okay. But for Ignatium, it's like a from 10 to 100. And sometimes you need to go back to one. So, and it requires a lot of strings. I don't think I have yet. Like, I do like a strings test and the Lululemon also, I mean, like did before, and my, I can show you like my first, my top five strings, they are like, Oh, I'm guessing this is the CliftonStrengths. Yeah. Okay. I don't know if you recommend that, but my first, my top five strings are Achiever, and Input, Learner, and Activator, and Ideation. So that's the first top five. Then Jing showed me her top five is Responsibility, Harmony, Arranger, Maximizer, and Learner. And then, you know, I got a comment from Jing and Jing said, those kind of strings you have, they are really amazing individual contributors strings, but that's not a leadership strings. You need to grow up leadership strings. So it was kind of like, hmm, how can I get my leadership strings? Or how can I, you know, turn my strings into maybe some leadership Ignatium needs? And I think one thing confused me is like, I don't believe that there is only one way to be a leader, right? And there is only one style of the leadership, but I feel like I've been, I've been, you know, asked to develop a very specific kind of leadership. I mean, like, which is like, you have to be very slow. I've been told many times, like, you're too quick. You're like, you're like, you know, run far away behind everybody. You're too, too. I mean, like, you're, you're, you want to do a lot of things. And that's one thing. Another thing is like, have to be like very detailed communication and very, or like, you have to be very careful when you talk to people, you have to think clearly and thinking again and again, what kind of message you need to, you know, talk to what kind of person that's the thing. And it's like a, it's like a to be transparency, but also in the same time, very careful. And, and also like manage up and manage done, and a lot of patience to the teammates, like, sometimes you can't expect that everyone, you know, like you, and maybe, maybe not everyone, you know, has had that ambition to, you know, to, to do that daily job. And maybe that's just a daily job for them. Yes. And, and I don't know why they're actually see sadly, but sadly, I find out like, I was always very quick. And I used to, you know, during my past careers, I used to work with people who are also very quick and quicker than me. And everyone has their own expertise, and they can kind of handle things by themselves very well. We just check with each other, but we don't need to come sometimes, sometimes we need but we don't need to always look at each other all we don't need to, like, really get done and teach each other what kind of things you want to do. So, um, and also another things I've been told me to, you know, to generate is like, I have to lean on the CEO and lean on the chief of editor, I mean, like a lot of things I need to decide with them. So that's another thing. But during my past careers, you know, I'm very, it's like for a long time, I don't have a boss. I mean, I have like partners and mentors, I mean, investors, I need to manage, but I don't. So I don't, I don't have a very good method to do this kind of manage up. Or when I handle a project myself, I take responsibility to myself. I mean, like, I, I would love to take all the risks and all the decisions by myself. So that's what I used to do. But I feel like now in the organization, and my position, so my decision will kind of like affect a lot of things and a lot of people's thinking about that. So it's like, oh, really? That's a good thing, no? Yeah. So, so it's just like, it's, it's so different. I mean, from so My, my conclusion is like, this is like a, I mean, a switch moment from a more like individual contributor, like a project owner, maybe manager, or leadership, and to be responsible for myself for my project, and be responsible for the team for the organization. That's what I thought. Well, that's, that's also true. You know, I like that you pointed out that there's no one way of doing leadership, right? And, and the most amazing people in leadership positions are always the ones who are most flexible in the way they approach different people in different situations. The best leaders have always been those who had that flexibility, who understood how to talk to different people about different things. And that's a skill that, that you will learn yourself, right? And that's, it's a fantastic skill to have. When you think of, of leadership, what kind of leader do you want to be? How do you want people to think of you? I mean, well, that's a, that's a big question. I didn't have a very clear idea in my mind. But I think people, I think I want people to see me as a leader who really takes responsibility. That's the first thing. Also, who cares for like the equality in the, in the team, in the whole structure. That's another thing. And who can always jump out of the box to find the solutions. That's, that's what I wanted to bring new things into the team or introduce new, new things and find their trainings. And also, I think strategy is very important to me. I want to be a leader who can really make doable and actionable strategy for the whole team. And also, I also think it's very important to practice, you know, the empathy and really take care of people, like, who they are, I mean, to help them to, you know, um, you know, do the things they're really good at and really want to do and match the position, match their, you know, ability with the position in the organization. That's a, that's a, just something, you know, very roughly come to my mind. Yeah. And that last part is also you, in your situation right now, you want to be able to do your best work, you know, for the organization. So you talked about some really interesting things. You talked about equality, responsibility. You talked about empathy. You talked about being strategic, right? So you have all of these already. Now, how, how far are you? Well, maybe I'll ask it in a different way. On a scale of one to 10, how far are you in being this person that you want to be in your mind? I used to think maybe I'm around six, but now actually I think I'm like two, but two is very far away from the 10, right? But I think the reason why I'm far away from there is, um, it's not because of, I don't have that kind of character or ability. The thing is, I don't know how to practice them, how to apply them to my job right now. I find those things, you know, they are deeply into my personality, like also to be decisive and very, you know, I love to encourage people. I love to give people positive feedback and I love to, you know, to say people achieve their own achievement. That's also me as a leader. But I found like, yeah, I feel like I just, sometimes I don't know how to practice them day by day. And sometimes when things come to me, maybe I'm a little bit confused and don't know what to do next. And I'm kind of like, you know, go to the fire field again. And I forgot to build up my own city. That's also a thing. Yeah. Yeah. I like that you pointed out that your values have not changed, right? I think that's a really important thing to recognize. In all of this change, your values have not changed at all. The only thing that's changed is your work environment and what you believe to be the expectations of you, right? And that's why you brought it down from a six to a two because you feel like you cannot match the expectation of you. So the important thing is your values have not changed. You still think of yourself and want to be this person for your organization, right? So in a way, nothing has changed. The only thing that's changed is your expectation because now you see the mountain and you see what needs to be done. But you gotta remember, you have not changed, right? So what you need for yourself is an ability to understand how to practice these things more. Yeah. Right? So, yeah. I just got the answer. You just asked me, what is the most I'm scared of? And I remember I had a phone call with my cousin and I heard he's in USA and he's like super smart and a scientist. And I told him like, I've got a really good opportunity. But in the same time, I feel like something I have to learn or have to practice or have to play a role. I'm afraid that I will be another person. I mean, like that will change my values. That's the most of things. Yeah, that's the biggest scare in my mind that always afraid of being another person or being a person who is not me again. Yeah. Yeah. And you realize now that you will not change and your values don't change at all. What is going to change is how you apply your values, right? How you use your values is the stuff that will change. And that's where you are on this journey. Which of the things that you talked about are you most worried about? Yeah, that's also very interesting because I used to think like I'm a really quick learner and I'm very flexible and open-minded. But during this process, I mean, since last November and until now, I feel like actually not exactly like that if I'm really sincere to myself. Like sometimes, I mean, like I'm not that quick. I mean, like sometimes I really need time, really need time to move forward. To move to another direction or to get used to the new environment, to comfort myself and to a lot of things. Yeah, I mean, to fit a new environment. I need time, the first thing. And the second thing is I feel like the rate of learning, I'm really proud of like my rate of learning that I always think I'm like absorb like knowledges or information is very quick. But do I really understand what I need to get from those experience or those informations? Am I grabbing the most important point? Yeah, that's also come to me. So the thing I'm worried about is like if, I don't want to be, you know, forbehand. And I don't want to look like dumb. I mean, that's also like a little bit, you know, I never saw this before. Yeah, it's really crazy. Yeah, it's interesting in this conversation. This has come up a few times in different ways in which you talk about yourself. It makes me believe that the one thing that you're most afraid of is not knowing what to do. That seems to be a thing that you've been talking a lot about in different ways, right? So like when you say quick, you know, you want to be seen to be a quick person, someone who moves quickly. Yeah. But there are, and in here, you're also talking about being a learner. You are a quick learner, but you are saying also, sometimes you are not quick to make the action that is needed to act on it. Yeah. So these are two very different things, right? Being a quick learner is a wonderful skill to have. It shows how smart you are. And it's a reflection of your intelligence and your hunger to always learn new things. Yeah. Acting on it is a different question, right? The inherent belief that you have here is that you always need to act on what you've learned. Yes. Is that, do you think that's an accurate way of looking at it? Yeah, I think it's very accurate, yeah. Sometimes making a decision is yes, let's do it. No, let's not do it. Or let's wait until we have more information. All three are decisions. Oh, really? I mean, waiting is also a decision. Waiting is always a decision. And you know why you wait, right? Sometimes you wait because we don't have enough information, or let's test this option. Let's try this way and then make the decision later. All of these are perfectly fine, right? Sometimes as leaders, we tell ourselves to be a decisive and a quick leader, you need to make big decisions. And that's never the case. A leader is good at knowing whether it's yes, no, or wait. Okay, yeah. I found that I'm not a person who likes to make a decision. Yeah, it takes some time to recognize that. And you feel that this is a bad thing. Why? Yeah, I feel like that's a bad thing. Because I feel like when you're to be a leader, you have to make a lot of decisions. And like a daily life, it also contains many tiny decisions. So if you are not a person who can make decisions, or you may... I think I have two obstacles. The first is I'm not easy to make decisions. I always need more time, I need more information, or need to scan a lot of things. The second thing is when I made bad decisions, I feel so bad, I feel guilty, I feel being punished. And it's hard for me to move on. So that's why, yeah, it not only happens in the work or job, but it also happens in my daily life. The other parts in my life is also like this. Because I didn't have a coffee, so I didn't have an energetic day. So I didn't do that, I didn't do that. I kind of go to climbing or something. It always bothered me in so many different ways. I feel like if I can fix to quickly move on, then maybe it will be easier for me to make decisions. Because I know that it will pass, and you can do another decision to save that bad decision, or you can learn from that. That's just a fucking tiny decision. But that's also true. I think very often when someone is struggling with a decision to make, the inherent belief very often is that there is a right decision. And that there's only one decision. And that a decision can only be made in that moment. And all these things are not true. Because there is very often no one right decision. And just because you made one right decision doesn't mean that it's going to be executed perfectly. There are a whole bunch of other things that can go wrong. So it's not about making a decision. It is very often really about accepting that either way, will this be good enough? Can we live with this? And to educate everyone around you about how decisions are being made. There was a really interesting case study. This was Jeff Bezos at Amazon. And he was describing how decision making works at the company. Because as we know, Amazon is known for moving really quickly, getting into new areas and all that. And there was a really interesting thing that he wrote. He says, we make our decisions when we hit 60% of knowledge. If we understand something at 60%, that's usually good enough to go ahead and do it. You don't have to wait till 100% for 100% clarity. Because by the time you get to 100%, your competitors have already done it. Or something else has happened, right? Yeah. And so he's saying, don't wait for the right time. Don't wait to have all the information that you need. Get to the point where you're 60% comfortable in what you know. And if you need to make a call, make the call. Waiting does not help in a lot of these cases, right? So that's why decision making is yes, no, or not yet. And to understand that will give you some freedom to allow yourself more time. The one thing that you've said a lot about in this call is about decisiveness and how quickly decisions are being made. And you feel like this is how you are being judged. Yeah. And where does this come from? Is this true or is this something that you have set a standard for yourself? I don't know. Yeah. Sometimes I thought maybe I'm like overthink about the negative feedback. Maybe the negative feedback is just a feedback, but I mean, like in the most of my, in the most of the time, I believe I, I made the best decision I can with the knowledge and with the information I had at that moment. Yeah. So, yeah, but sometimes it's, you know, when people with like higher position or maybe like more experienced than me or more proficient and they told me like, yeah, if I were you, I will do like those decisions or we have to, you know, pay for the decisions you've made before. And if we can figure out this, you know, as early or as possible, then we can make another decisions at that stage. I will feel like, I will question my approach. I mean, like, so did I approach of that decision? Something's wrong. I didn't get enough information or I didn't, you know, go to the right person or I should, you know, get more consulting at that moment or yeah, that's, that's what I'm thinking about. Yeah. So, yeah. And, and, and I think that's, that's an important lesson because it teaches you to be aware of what you don't know. Right. So when you make a decision, it's not a question of how much you know about that thing. It's also a question of what you do not know yet. Yeah. And so then that becomes a lesson to learn. Every time you have to make a decision, ask yourself, what do I not know at this point? It's always, as human beings, we always, we always approach questions that way. We always think, what do I know now? Right. And that is how we make decisions. You can ask it in the other way. What do I not know yet? And that will allow you to, to explore more options. It will allow you to talk to more people. It would help you figure out what questions you need to ask. Yeah. Ask the question to, to get, you know, to, to hate that 60% of knowledge is very, it's also very important. I mean, that's right. I realized that since, you know, like one week, one week ago when I talked to an old friend who is also the data consultant of the nation right now. And he told me like, Yvette, did you realize that that you started to see, like, I don't know the answer yet, or I don't have the answer in my mind yet. You're not like before. Every time I ask you anything, you will give me something. But you start to see like, hold on, maybe I didn't, I didn't, I didn't know that. And you need to give me more time. I need to figure out what's going on. Yeah. Yeah. One, one way is, is obviously instead of giving the answer yes or no, you know, I can, and depending on who that person is, to, to explain how you're thinking about it so that they can help you make a decision. Right. And this is one way to bring people along the journey with you as a leader, when you involve them in how you think about something and then get them to, to walk with you. Right. Yeah. Yeah. And I realized that another thing is sometimes I'm, I'm also afraid of laying on other people because I always, you know, make assumption like, if, if, if one day there is, you know, just a, just the me alone, and I cannot rely on anybody else. And like in my family is like that, you know, you never question, you never ask a question to, I never asked a question to my parent and always like make your own decision and you take the responsibility by yourself. And how can you, you know, don't know what to do. So sometimes I feel like to show I'm lack of knowledge, lack of ability, you know, I don't know how to make the decisions vulnerable. It's like, it's a bad thing. Yeah. Ah, so that's, that's, I like, I like how you said it, you know, because the, the assumption there is that it is bad to ask for help. Right. And it's bad to, to, you know, to involve someone else in the decision process. And that needs to change because that is the stuff that's holding you back. Right. One of the nicest things that you can do for someone is to ask for their opinion. Right. Because what, what does that do for them? Because that makes them feel. voluble to me or helpful to me. Yeah, I recognize, I recognize your, your professionals and their expertise. Yeah, correct. That's right. So you're saying to them, I trust you. I know that you're really great at this. And I know that that you can help me understand this. And that's one of the nicest things that you can do for someone, right? Who wouldn't want to hear that. So that's, that's, that allows you to do a couple of things as a leader. One, it allows you to get more information. Yeah, to, to learn to think about things in a different way. But also, you know, in a deeper way, it really connects you with that person. Because now the person's like, Oh, wow, Yvette values my opinion. She values my understanding of this. And she is willing to be vulnerable, so that I can show her something. Yeah, that's, that's very important. Yeah. Um, yeah, because I remember the first feedback Jing gave to me was she told me like, she found out, I didn't know when to go to her and ask her for her opinion. Right? Like how to use her maybe she used the word how to use the CEO. Yeah, how to lean on the CEO to make the decision that what kind of the decision I can make by myself, but what kind of the decision actually I must go to her that's not because of a, I mean, a hierarchy thing or something. That's just a way together we can make a better decision. And we can see see see more perspectives. That's a must thing must must have to do thing. Yeah, absolutely. The the CEO is there as a resource for you. Right. And that's the important thing to keep in mind. It's not a boss kind of a situation. But quite the opposite, you know, that person is there to help you get things done. And if you don't engage with that person, or share how you're thinking about something, makes it very hard for her to do her job, right? Her job is to help you succeed. As a leader, she helps other people succeed. That is another definition of leadership. And it's an important one, right? Because for her to help you, you need to be able to open up to her. Yeah, I don't know why it's um, I mean, I, I've, I worked with like, so many different styles of leaders, but she is really hard for me to open myself to her. I just, I don't know why. It's very, it's very difficult. And because actually, we met even before I came to the initial and I think I shared with you like she's one of the reasons why I made the decision that I want to come to the initial is because I, I feel like, well, there is a person and, and her career path in the media industry, even in the English media industry, you know, sometimes can be copied. I mean, the Chinese media industry that finally feel like all the ability, all the knowledge I have, I can use, like, in her way. That's, that's a reason. So the first time I met Jean, I asked her, do you need an intern? I mean, I can go to American, I can, you know, I can choose whatever college and I can be your intern. That's amazing. Yeah, then Jean told me like, why, why, why you don't just join the initial? You can, you can, you can give a try. Because I, I have known Lulu for like, for so many years. So, but after, after, you know, after she on board, in initial, I feel like something is not that right. I feel like we have, I mean, we made, we have made a lot of effort to learn how to cooperate with each other since last July, actually, even four months before he officially, you know, announcement to be a CEO at Ignatium. And until now, I think our, you know, working relationship has a huge improved during the last two months. But I do keep feeling that there are blockers, you know, in between. So yeah, I don't know why, if you could improve your relationship with her in one in one way, what what would it be? What is the one thing that you want to see changed? I think, I hope, if every time, hey, every time she gives me her judgment, or feedback, she could listen to my idea before, because there is a reason why I do that. And that reason, I think is very important, because I got more information. And the second thing is, I really hate that kind of like us is a best US way is a passing the worst things. Because I came from, you know, I came from America, and I walk in the American industry. So I saw a lot of I saw the best things of the in the world. And that's, that's why we need to apply to that way. I really hate that. I can understand that. I didn't got an opportunity to tell her, but I really, really hate that. That makes, you know, her leadership style is more like, because, because I know what is best for you, and what is best for the nation. So let's do that. Either you'll follow me, or you align with me, you'll follow, you'll follow me, or you will, you know, regret. So that's, that's another thing. And And yeah, and in the same time, I think I do need to also, another thing is, I think it's, it's a big cry. Actually, it's a big crisis for me. I have a lot of value, right? I'm like, I care, I care my teammates and a lot of things. But sometimes I feel like these values or my personality, you know, it's not accepted. It's not accepted by her, because just because that's not leadership strengths. You know, when we, when we, you know, like at the beginning of this core, it's like, oh, you have these strengths, but that's not a leadership strengths. If you want to build leadership, you have to do all the other strengths. But it's very, it's very difficult for me to tell whether you can do that, because those kinds of strengths are difficult to achieve. So I, I saw your ceiling so quickly. I mean, I already see your ceiling right now. And she really told me like that, you know, like I have saw your ceiling. So I was like, what can I do if you already see my ceiling? He said, I mean, like you're willing to improve your communication style, because communication style is different from me and Lulu. And that is, is, is not that good. I mean, but communication is everything to be a leadership, but communication is very difficult to improve. If you cannot do that, that will be, that will be very, very hard for you to improve. And she told me like, you know, what you've, you know, like, acted under my expectation and made me also anxious because that will affect my CEO and process in the nation. Oh my God, that's a lot of words. I mean, like, come to me and I, I do learn lessons and got some positive ideas from that. But in the same time, I feel like, wow, that's a lot. That's yeah, that's a lot. First of all, since I've already got my ceiling, I even didn't, you know, I, I feel like this is my first year back to the media industry. I'm like, it's even, I mean, I just started. And the second thing is what I do will affect your career in the nation. I mean, I can understand that because also that means like, I'm very important to you, but that's too much responsibility. So, and the third thing is I feel like the differences between me and between, between, you know, between she and Lulu, like, I mean, the difference is, is, is, is not a good thing. And me as, as me, me as, and my personality, my personalities are not being rewarded. So that's, I mean, that's, that's very, I mean, I don't know how to describe that. Yeah. So I think this is, this is interesting on two levels. One, it sounds like both of you need a deeper relationship and, and you feel that she doesn't take into account your ideas and your thinking around why something is the way it is. Right. Which suggests to me that there's room for, for both of you to communicate better. Right. So then the question is how can you communicate better with her? How do you inform her of the decisions that you're making? Right. How do you describe your thinking process to her? These things are important, right? So I think that's going to be one of the things that, that you might want to take away from this call. So that's one. And then the other part is, is really around your personality and you feel like your personality is an, is, is a leadership asset. Right. The challenge for you here is to demonstrate how your personality makes you a great leader. Yeah. So don't, don't accept that, you know, she's, she sees you in a certain way. The question for yourself is how do I show her that what I have is unique, is special, and it will help us build a better business. So that is on you. So the, the thing about, about CEOs is that, you know, they get hired into the job and they spend the first six months, you know, to really understand how to communicate and what people want and all that. Right. And, and CEOs are like any other human beings, what they know, and then that's what they don't know. Right. So you should believe in yourself and that over time, when she sees how you're acting, what you're doing, and how that helps you accomplish your goals. Yeah. She will learn to accept that there is a different way. You know, the event way of doing things is just as good. So the challenge for you is how do you make her aware of that? How do you demonstrate this with the team that you have? Yeah, but one challenge is like, you know, under so many changes we are facing right now, and I feel like the room to communicate this part or to explore this part is is very limited. Like the thing is have to, you know, be fast-paced and aligned and and just do the things maybe. So yeah, that's why I feel like I feel like I need time, but I just don't have that time, and sometimes I just don't know where I can find that time and space. Yeah. Yeah, it's hard when a new CEO steps in because, you know, you have to match yourself with their way of working, and that's very challenging. You know, I understand that very well. That makes me don't want to be a CEO anymore. I feel like a horrible job. You will, because, you know, at some point you're going to see how you can bring your leadership skills, you know, into a higher level. You will want it. Yeah, and other things maybe we can talk the next time. It's not difficult for me to learn a lesson, but a lesson is so easy to be my burden. Yeah, that's right. You know, how can I learn a lesson, but I don't, you know, it doesn't, you know, be my burden. That's what I really, really want to learn. If I always, you know, carry all my mistakes, all the bad decisions, all the negative feedbacks on my back, you know, it's too much. That's too much, yeah. Yeah, you gotta let yourself make bad decisions, and maybe it's one, maybe it's a question of permission. Do you need someone's permission to fail? And who is that person? Maybe it's you, maybe it's your CEO, maybe it's your parents, right? So always ask yourself that question, who can give me the permission to fail? And if it's your CEO, that's actually quite easy, because when you're making a decision, and you're keeping your CEO in the loop, and you're saying, this is how I'm thinking about it, you're making the best decision that you can at that time, given what you know. And if it doesn't work out, it doesn't work out. That's totally fine, right? Trust yourself to make the best decision at that time. You have no other ways of figuring out, you can't tell the future. Yeah. So rule number one, you can't tell the future. Second, you can only make the best decision at that time. Yeah, yeah. And maybe the third thing is, give yourself permission to fail. Because you only know 60% of the answer, or 70% of the answer. Right? And it's not your fault. Yeah. I think that six person this thing really killed me a little bit like, well, that's a person. So it's, it's normal to, to make mistakes. I mean, it's normal. Sometimes you've got blindness. Yeah. But just the next time, try to see maybe a little bit more than six, six percent. Yeah, well, that's right. That's right. You, you will never know everything to make a decision, right? You will never get to 100%. And then you make, you know, a yes, no decision. You might still fail. You might still fail because the execution was bad, or something else happened. Yeah, you will never get to 100%. There could be an earthquake tomorrow, you know, or, or right now, you know, these things are the way it is. So try to keep that in mind. Yeah, a very, very solid idea in my mind is this time, I don't want to turn around and walk away, because this is the thing I'm like, waiting for many years waiting for many years, I can get this job in this position. And I believe. So this is not just a job for me. This is kind of like a belief to to like the published freedom, the human rights and a lot of things to practice. Yeah, so yeah, have to be a leader. You are. You are a leader. You got to do it your way. And you've got to be able to demonstrate how you do it. Yeah, sure. For my own leadership style is also is also Yeah, I need to figure out Yeah, what's my style and how it you know, we are connected deeply with my value and my personality. Yeah. Yeah. Feels good. Feels better. Feels like a real therapy. That's what it's for. That's what it's for. I've been in your position before I know what it's like. It's hard. It's so hard for me. I you know, I cannot find anyone to to talk about this. You know, a lot of my friends, he they are, you know, colleagues in the nation, there is no to tell them like, and I don't want to go to my CEO, like I'm, you know, crying baby ask her, of course, or never. I don't want to do that. I want to be a well prepared person. And I can, you know, we can we can talk where in a very professional ways and make a true connection and deep, deep relationships. That's not what I want. And I cannot share this information with, with others, because too many background. So it feels to me. So good. I can share this with you. And you know, the background and you you I mean, you know me. So I mean, like, I really, really thanks to you for, for this. Of course. No, I'm thankful to be able to do this kind of work. It's something that's really meaningful to me. You know, I care a lot about, about being able to support someone like you, you know? Yeah, you know, when I when I back to this, this last beta, and one idea, you know, I want to hang in front of my desk is that when I want to be a person who can make a presentation and when I you know, when I want to give up, I was like, I don't feel so frustrated about that, because I just started my journey. So I have to be I think, I think, you know, besides permission, maybe I really need patience. Yeah. Now, too. I'm a human beings. I'm not a robot or a program 100% 100%. Yeah. I'm glad you come to that realization. The, you started this conversation talking about being quick. And, and you're afraid of not being quick enough to make decisions. You're afraid of looking really dumb, when you can't make up your mind. And a lot of this stuff is also patience, you know, yes, no, not yet. Yeah. And also how the whole being in the in my heart and yeah, and just a face a challenge. Yeah, I can already you know, tell that there will be like a tons of challenges this year, until July. Yeah, that's so much to learn. So much to grow. Yeah, so much learn. Yeah, I'm going to be such a different person by the end of this year, I'm sure. I hope so. I already I already feel I'm a different person since last year, you know, since the first time I met you. You've come a long way. This is great event. You're doing very well. Yeah, cool. Oh, thank you. Thank you so much. Much. Yeah, I may need some time and think about it. And then get in touch again. Let's do another session. Yeah, thanks a lot for letting me know that I can, you know, I can go to you and you always thank you, Alan. Thank you.