---
type: Note
---
# Removed from LinkedIn

**Feb 14 2025**

**Honors & awards**

"Transformation from Traditional to Digital Business" -- Conference Panelist "Transformation from Traditional to Digital Business" -- Conference Panelist Issued by CASBAA OTT Summit 2017 · Mar 2017Issued by CASBAA OTT Summit 2017 · Mar 2017 Company logo Associated with The Splice Newsroom Associated with The Splice Newsroom Panel on Media Entrepreneurship -- Panel Moderator Panel on Media Entrepreneurship -- Panel Moderator Issued by Digital Journalism World Summit 2017 · Feb 2017Issued by Digital Journalism World Summit 2017 · Feb 2017 Company logo Associated with The Splice Newsroom Associated with The Splice Newsroom Council Member Council Member Issued by Gerson Lehrman Group · Sep 2016Issued by Gerson Lehrman Group · Sep 2016 Company logo Associated with The Splice Newsroom Associated with The Splice Newsroom Council Member of GLG, which represents groups of professionals and consultants in various industries and specialties who educate and share insights with financial and business leaders and other organizations and professionals. Council Member of GLG, which represents groups of professionals and consultants in various industries and specialties who educate and share insights with financial and business leaders and other organizations and professionals. "Putting the audience at the centre – new forms of storytelling, distribution and revenue" -- Workshop Facilitator "Putting the audience at the centre – new forms of storytelling, distribution and revenue" -- Workshop Facilitator Issued by Open Society Foundations / Grahamstown, South Africa · Aug 2016Issued by Open Society Foundations / Grahamstown, South Africa · Aug 2016 Company logo Associated with The Splice Newsroom Associated with The Splice Newsroom "Death by a million page views: How the mindless pursuit of reach is killing publishers" -- Conference Speaker "Death by a million page views: How the mindless pursuit of reach is killing publishers" -- Conference Speaker Issued by ICEEfest / Bucharest, Romania · Jun 2016Issued by ICEEfest / Bucharest, Romania · Jun 2016 Company logo Associated with The Splice Newsroom Associated with The Splice Newsroom The rush for scale in the past few years is diminishing everything we know about user value. Instead of building a better, deeper relationship with out users, we've turned them into anonymous numbers, distilled down to page views. And when advertisers wanted more views at a lower price, we created more. And we wonder why newsrooms are dying. The rush for scale in the past few years is diminishing everything we know about user value. Instead of building a better, deeper relationship with out users, we've turned them into anonymous numbers, distilled down to page views. And when advertisers wanted more views at a lower price, we created more. And we wonder why newsrooms are dying. Advisor, Industry Advisory Board Advisor, Industry Advisory Board Issued by Kaplan Higher Education Academy · Jun 2016Issued by Kaplan Higher Education Academy · Jun 2016 Company logo Associated with The Splice Newsroom Associated with The Splice Newsroom The Industry Advisory Board consults, makes recommendations and reports to the Curriculum Development and Review Committee on trends related to media, marketing, communications and PR. The Industry Advisory Board consults, makes recommendations and reports to the Curriculum Development and Review Committee on trends related to media, marketing, communications and PR. "The fragmentation of content and time... and its implications for brands" -- Conference Speaker "The fragmentation of content and time... and its implications for brands" -- Conference Speaker Issued by Spark Conference / Bangkok, Thailand · Apr 2016Issued by Spark Conference / Bangkok, Thailand · Apr 2016 Company logo Associated with The Splice Newsroom Associated with The Splice Newsroom "Bots in the newsrooms: How Slack and AI are changing the way news is discovered, created and distributed" -- Conference Speaker "Bots in the newsrooms: How Slack and AI are changing the way news is discovered, created and distributed" -- Conference Speaker Issued by WAN-IFRA / Manila · Mar 2016Issued by WAN-IFRA / Manila · Mar 2016 Company logo Associated with The Splice Newsroom Associated with The Splice Newsroom We’re at the cusp of a new phase of operations driven by the use of bots and other AI technologies to discover, create and distribute stories. These bots will help automate workflows and help you deliver news faster and with greater accuracy. We’re at the cusp of a new phase of operations driven by the use of bots and other AI technologies to discover, create and distribute stories. These bots will help automate workflows and help you deliver news faster and with greater accuracy. "Innovative digital trends in newsrooms for 2016" -- Conference Speaker "Innovative digital trends in newsrooms for 2016" -- Conference Speaker Issued by Rockit Digital Communication Summit / Chisinau, Moldova · Feb 2016Issued by Rockit Digital Communication Summit / Chisinau, Moldova · Feb 2016 Company logo Associated with The Splice Newsroom Associated with The Splice Newsroom Hyper Haze Hack -- Judge Hyper Haze Hack -- Judge Issued by Newsplex Asia, Hacks/Hackers, WAN-IFRA, Online News Association Singapore · Oct 2015Issued by Newsplex Asia, Hacks/Hackers, WAN-IFRA, Online News Association Singapore · Oct 2015 Company logo Associated with The Splice Newsroom Associated with The Splice Newsroom WAN-IFRA Asian Digital Media Awards 2015 -- Judge WAN-IFRA Asian Digital Media Awards 2015 -- Judge Issued by WAN-IFRA / Singapore · Aug 2015Issued by WAN-IFRA / Singapore · Aug 2015 Company logo Associated with The Splice Newsroom Associated with The Splice Newsroom "Integrating people, culture, tools and workflow: How to get things done in the modern newsroom" -- Conference Speaker "Integrating people, culture, tools and workflow: How to get things done in the modern newsroom" -- Conference Speaker Issued by WAN-IFRA / Bangkok · Apr 2015Issued by WAN-IFRA / Bangkok · Apr 2015 Company logo Associated with The Splice Newsroom Associated with The Splice Newsroom Synopsis: Change is hard. So how do you go about changing the way your newsroom works? We’ll look at four key aspects in what makes an effective newsroom tick -- people, culture, tools and workflow — and explore ways to get your teams moving in today’s fast-moving digital landscape. Synopsis: Change is hard. So how do you go about changing the way your newsroom works? We’ll look at four key aspects in what makes an effective newsroom tick -- people, culture, tools and workflow — and explore ways to get your teams moving in today’s fast-moving digital landscape. WAN-IFRA Digital Media Asia Hack (DMA.Hack) -- Judge WAN-IFRA Digital Media Asia Hack (DMA.Hack) -- Judge Issued by WAN-IFRA / Singapore · Nov 2014Issued by WAN-IFRA / Singapore · Nov 2014 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! "Social Media Meets Broadcast Journalism, Story-Telling and News" -- Conference Panel Moderator "Social Media Meets Broadcast Journalism, Story-Telling and News" -- Conference Panel Moderator Issued by Broadcast Asia / Singapore · Jun 2014Issued by Broadcast Asia / Singapore · Jun 2014 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! "How to Discover, Validate and Distill the Best of Social Media for Reporting" -- Conference Panel Moderator "How to Discover, Validate and Distill the Best of Social Media for Reporting" -- Conference Panel Moderator Issued by East-West Center / Yangon · Mar 2014Issued by East-West Center / Yangon · Mar 2014 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! Synopsis: YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and LinkedIn are fast becoming standard tools in newsrooms. But social media merely provides scraps of information; journalism puts it into context. Panel will discuss tools that digital journalists use to sift through the noise on social media; how to discover and verify fake, non-factual content; contextualize hate speech and potentially defamatory material; and build the right team workflow processes to ensure fair and balanced reporting. Synopsis: YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and LinkedIn are fast becoming standard tools in newsrooms. But social media merely provides scraps of information; journalism puts it into context. Panel will discuss tools that digital journalists use to sift through the noise on social media; how to discover and verify fake, non-factual content; contextualize hate speech and potentially defamatory material; and build the right team workflow processes to ensure fair and balanced reporting. "Newest Media Tools, Trends and Techniques" -- Conference Panel Moderator "Newest Media Tools, Trends and Techniques" -- Conference Panel Moderator Issued by East-West Center / Yangon · Mar 2014Issued by East-West Center / Yangon · Mar 2014 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! "Where will the next disruptions come from?" -- Conference Speaker "Where will the next disruptions come from?" -- Conference Speaker Issued by Digital Media Asia / Kuala Lumpur · Nov 2013Issued by Digital Media Asia / Kuala Lumpur · Nov 2013 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! "Next Steps for Innovation in Asia" -- Conference Speaker "Next Steps for Innovation in Asia" -- Conference Speaker Issued by Financial Times-Asia Business Summit / Singapore · Oct 2013Issued by Financial Times-Asia Business Summit / Singapore · Oct 2013 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! "Role of Analytics in a Newsroom" -- Conference Speaker "Role of Analytics in a Newsroom" -- Conference Speaker Issued by Digital Journalism World / Singapore · Oct 2013Issued by Digital Journalism World / Singapore · Oct 2013 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! OpenNews.Hack -- Judge OpenNews.Hack -- Judge Issued by OpenNews.Hack / Singapore · Oct 2013Issued by OpenNews.Hack / Singapore · Oct 2013 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! "The Many Faces of Content Marketing" -- Conference Speaker "The Many Faces of Content Marketing" -- Conference Speaker Issued by Content Conversations / Singapore · Aug 2013Issued by Content Conversations / Singapore · Aug 2013 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! "Media Innovation & Future Trends" -- Conference Speaker "Media Innovation & Future Trends" -- Conference Speaker Issued by East-West Center, International Media Conference / Seoul · Jun 2012Issued by East-West Center, International Media Conference / Seoul · Jun 2012 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! "Publishers Adapting to and Monetising Digital Content" -- Conference Speaker "Publishers Adapting to and Monetising Digital Content" -- Conference Speaker Issued by Digital Matters / Singapore · May 2012Issued by Digital Matters / Singapore · May 2012 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! "The Reinvention of News" -- Conference Speaker "The Reinvention of News" -- Conference Speaker Issued by Social Media Week / Singapore · Feb 2012Issued by Social Media Week / Singapore · Feb 2012 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! Knight Foundation Fellowship to Salzburg Global Seminar Knight Foundation Fellowship to Salzburg Global Seminar Issued by John S. and James L. Knight Foundation · Nov 2011Issued by John S. and James L. Knight Foundation · Nov 2011 Company logo Associated with Yahoo! Associated with Yahoo! The fellowships are awarded to editors working in print, broadcast, and web media. Applicants must have a solid track record in covering the respective subject area of the session they wish to apply for. The fellow joins a five-day session in Salzburg as a "visiting editorial consultant" to the Salzburg Global Seminar and works with the program staff to develop session-related content for the Seminar website. The fellowships are awarded to editors working in print, broadcast, and web media. Applicants must have a solid track record in covering the respective subject area of the session they wish to apply for. The fellow joins a five-day session in Salzburg as a "visiting editorial consultant" to the Salzburg Global Seminar and works with the program staff to develop session-related content for the Seminar website. "Online Journalism: Chances & Challenges" -- Conference Speaker "Online Journalism: Chances & Challenges" -- Conference Speaker Issued by Konrad Adenauer Siftung / Kuala Lumpur · Aug 2010Issued by Konrad Adenauer Siftung / Kuala Lumpur · Aug 2010 Company logo Associated with Yahoo!