---
type: Personal-Note
---
# The Future of Creative AI and How to Harness It (Bilawal Sidhu)

**The Future of Media Consumption**
Now, "content to content" also hints at the future of content consumption. I'm going to give you a rather dry example. If you haven't had a chance to use Notebook LM and audio overviews already, I highly, highly encourage it. That's how I like to consume an insane amount of academic research. But imagine personalized weekly podcasts for your employees, right? You take all your all-hands videos, you take all your emails, all your presentations, and bam, you get this easy-to-digest summary.
And I think this is the shape of where content is going:**Personalized**, dare I say**disposable**, and made**just in time**. And it doesn't matter if it's some enterprise use case or you're building a new kind of podcast that you subscribe to. I think you can reimagine how you deliver content in a personalized fashion.
<https://youtu.be/4NqhYrucp6Y?si=3d45qTL86MC5KFYd>
**Automation in Content Creation**
Even before we fully automate this, take my friends Rowan Schwang and Von Ma as examples. I believe they built what I call the fastest breaking-news-to-Instagram-reel pipeline in the tech media game. Where most other channels are busy reposting the same PR-approved assets as a text post or a blog, they've already got a video out there on Instagram that's meeting people where they are and giving them content in an easy-to-digest fashion.
And they're not doing anything fancy. They're using HeyGen, 11 Labs, and essentially eliminating themselves as the bottleneck. They're still human editors and producers that are doing all of the, you know, bringing it all together. But given where MCP [Model Context Protocol] is going, you can imagine even those processes will be automated, and the VLM [Vision Language Model] will be capable of using Premiere or DaVinci Resolve for you. The best part about all of this is that their audience doesn't even care that it's AI. A lot of creators are worried, "Oh my god, what if I put a deepfake version of myself? Like, where is the authenticity?" You're delivering them a news bite, and if it's valuable, they're absolutely going to consume it. And I think the numbers speak for themselves.
Similar things are happening in the advertising game. This company that Adobe just acquired made this personalized campaign in India where basically every single ad was tailored to these 2,500 local businesses. So when you saw the ad, it referred to the local shop where you could go buy Cadbury products by name. Just imagine where advertising is going to go.
**Dynamic, On-the-Fly Content Generation**
Speaking of where this is going, I mean, I'd mentioned this notion of**disposable, dynamic content**. You can start injecting the context of your user—their needs, their preferences—almost as if somebody made a piece of media, whatever that piece of media is, for them on the platform they're choosing to consume it. It's not going to be static.
But it's not just video stuff, too, right? We talked about location-based AR, and historically we talk about, "Oh, if we want to build a location-based tour guide experience, how are we going to create this content at scale?" Now you take these visual language models that have insane world knowledge, take something like VPS [Visual Positioning System], use something like the Google Maps API as tool use, and then text-to-speech, and you can make that tour for their AR glasses or just their freaking phone with a pair of AirPods, like, on the fly. That's really, really wild.
But don't just take my word for it. If you ask Jensen Huang—and I had the chance to ask him this at GTC last year—he thinks we're 5 to 10 years out from**fully generative AI games** and that every pixel in the future is going to be generated and not rendered. Now, obviously, he's got a vested interest in it. Jensen's trying to sell a lot of GPUs, but I actually think it's a very, very tame prediction, especially when you look at some of the recent research that's coming out, such as this one from Google called "Genie." You take a photo and then suddenly you get a minute of a playable world. Another leading indicator or another sign that this shift is happening is if you take some of the 3D-first AI startups that exist, like Luma and Odyssey, they've all switched to video diffusion as the path to interactive worlds. And literally, the Odyssey CEO replied to my tweet yesterday saying, "Jensen is always right." So there you have it.
**A New Level of Abstraction**
What this also means is the lines between**software and content are blurring**. You can already code things up faster than it would have taken you to make it in Blender or Cinema 4D. Here's an example: I "vibe-coded" this thing in Claude. I literally felt like a creative director or product manager. I was like, "Write a PRD for this." And then, "Hey, tech lead, I want you to sequence this out. No, cut these features." And then I ended up with this really cool visualization that you see over here. And then I ran it through Runway to reskin it to make it look like Legos. I didn't even touch Blender. Like, that's mind-blowing to me. So you can just imagine where these capabilities will be in just another year.
So what I think that means is that in this future, instead of getting lost in the details and endless variations, you'll start authoring content at this**higher level of abstraction**. The best analogy that comes to my mind right now is sort of HTML and the Document Object Model, or a 3D scene graph if you're a 3D nerd. It's going to start with the examples that I gave you: last-mile customization and all the drudgery that agencies are doing today tailoring creatives or ads to different platforms, viewers, and interests. But at some point, you'll be able to create a lot of content on demand.
The way to maybe think about it is we're not just building content anymore. We're building**systems and workflows that do the creation for us**, and then video or 3D or audio is just the means for final delivery.
**Key Takeaways**
Alright, to wrap things up, now that we've painted a picture for the future, I want to bring this home and leave you with some key takeaways.
1.**Play test with all this stuff.** There's seemingly a new primitive that drops like every other week. If you're not playing with it, I truly think you're missing out. The way you should think about doing this is having two modes. I call it**sandbox mode** and**architect mode**. In sandbox mode, you're sort of like building castles by the beach. You're totally cool with the waves of water coming in and washing everything away, but you're going to pull out interesting insights. Happy accidents will happen. And then you take those insights, and you'll start applying them in a more structured fashion towards a deliverable for architect mode.
2.**Build an island of influence.** A lot of students and early founders come to me and say things like, "Oh, building in public is cringe." And I say, "I don't think it's cringe. I think it's a damn near necessity." As these barriers to creation keep shattering, I think it's going to get increasingly difficult to cut through the noise. So I think it's important you start building your island of influence now.
3.**Learn the incumbent tools.** This is a little bit contrarian. Some people are like, "Oh, I don't want to learn Blender, Premiere, After Effects, the incumbent tool of choice in your industry, Unreal Engine." You do have to learn these things because A) maybe these things are just running headless in the cloud and AI is using them, so you need to know how they work, and B) for now, they're going to be the bailing wire and duct tape you need to ship stuff.
Look, I get it. This all feels very exhausting. We do get a new Lego primitive every couple of weeks. But even the existing primitives have not been put together in the most obvious combinations, and I gave you just a few examples, let alone all the non-obvious insights that you're going to get as you apply these primitives to your own business and creative problems.
So, in my opinion, this is the moment to act because in this new world, the only limit is your imagination.
Thank you very much.