---
type: Note
---

- [Scott Galloway.md](The%20Line,%20No%20Mercy%20%20No%20Malice/Scott%20Galloway.md)

- Highlights

 - OpenAI, summary of events: The board fucked up and fired CEO Sam Altman, but over the next several hours/days the situation was unfucked. As of this writing, the state of play is Altman is back as CEO and a majority of the board has resigned. Whether or not that status survives the long weekend, the ultimate outcome has been clear since Sunday night: Altman reinstated at OpenAI. The board’s last stand was Darryl Hannah in a tree, refusing to come down in protest — illusory relevance with the half-life of a Planet Fitness seven-day pass.

Microsoft hiring the entire OpenAI workforce was never realistic, despite the made-for-TV moment of 500 people boarding a plane for Seattle. Some of the problems: broken employee and partnership agreements with OpenAI and infringement of its IP rights; Microsoft’s assimilation of 500 different comp/equity agreements; the response of OpenAI investors (a16z, Khosla Ventures, Sequoia, Thrive, and Tiger) to their multibillion-dollar stakes getting effectively transferred to MSFT; and antitrust concerns over greater concentration in AI power. Satya knew this and was careful to say he welcomed the opportunity to work with OpenAI again should Altman return. Which was the better/more viable outcome for both of them all along.

The near-collapse of the Valley’s most important and successful startup is a $90 billion lesson that profit and mission don’t mix. OpenAI was founded as a nonprofit, then birthed a for-profit subsidiary. Serving “all of humanity” was adorable until 90 billion distractions showed up and the management team and investors began avoiding eye contact with the original mission. Altman and the board were supposed to straddle that divide, but it proved impossible. If this was a battle between capital and (concern for) humanity, capital smothered humanity in its sleep.

We should abandon the mythology that the market alone can produce the great taste of capitalism (shareholder returns) without the calories (pick your poison: climate change, labor exploitation, autocracy).**Nothing drives innovation and value creation like the profit motive. But it can’t be trusted to do anything but make money.** That’s why we need stronger government regulation and greater enforcement. The best ESG investment of ‘23 was the taxpayers’ investment in the SEC and DOJ, which are sending the CEOs of FTX and Binance to jail. The fiduciary obligation to “humanity” belongs with democratic institutions; it can’t be dependent on the better angels of billionaires.

**The Line** However … the pursuit of profit has limits. And that brings us to the other major news of the week, which I believe is more serious and consequential. Last Wednesday, what Elon Musk had previously cloaked in dog-whistling retweets and bluster broke into the open with an explicit public endorsement. “You have said the actual truth” he wrote in response to the claim that Jews are pushing “hatred against whites” and “flooding their country” with minorities. This follows months of warnings from outside groups that antisemitic and other hateful content has surged on X. Mr. Free Speech has sued several of these groups and blamed the Anti-Defamation League for undermining X’s advertising business.

What has ensued is apologists “contextualizing” the statements of their friend, idol, and potential client. These same “leaders” were quick to judge the idiocy of a 19-year-old at a campus rally, but they’ve decided there’s “nuance” when it comes to one of their own. It’s fucking gross. You don’t need to be able to see into his Ketamine heart — you are your actions and your words, and Elon Musk is an antisemite.

Whether you agree this is what the man is, think he’s cosplaying a Nazi for business reasons, or believe he’s just a misunderstood genius, the question remains: What is to be done when the richest man on the planet, who controls the world’s most valuable car company and a global satellite communications network, uses his wholly owned social media platform to increasingly and unapologetically aid and abet bigotry and antisemitism?

This is the latest incarnation of an old problem. I wrote about it a year ago, when another well-known figure was promoting the same dangerous feculence. The post wasn’t about him (Kanye) but the appropriate response to his statements. We’re running it again, because our response to Elon is more important. Not only because of his power and reach, but because the situation has grown more dire. Hate crimes in the U.S. have been rising for a decade, and were up another 7% in 2022 — while antisemitic incidents were up 36%. In 2021 there were eight bomb threats against Jewish institutions. In 2022 there were 91. That was before October 7 and the war in Gaza. This October saw a nearly 400% increase in antisemitic incidents. And violence begets violence: Islamophobic incidents nearly doubled in the same period.

As we argued when we ran the following post last year, these trends have tragic historical echoes: the price of doing business with those who traffic in hate is not measured in dollars, but in lives. What this post is ultimately about is the difference between opinions and principles. Opinions are easy to hold and cheap to change, and their value is commensurate. Principles, on the other hand, are things for which you are willing to sacrifice. Willing to draw a line.