---
type: Note
---
# Things I’ve learned this year

Brian Morrissey
<https://www.therebooting.com/p/things-i-learned-this-year>
**Dec 23, 2022**
Getting something new off the ground is a mix of excitement and frustration. Anytime there’s an up, you can be assured it won’t last. Of course, there’s reassurance that the opposite also holds true. We all have a tendency to overrate the short term and not appreciate the long term. I’ve always found that with any form of growth. We always expect more short term progress, yet we underappreciate overall growth through the inevitable peaks and troughs. Here’s some things I’ve learned.
**Simplification is leverage.** The biggest challenge I’ve found in doing The Rebooting as a solo endeavor is the sheer number of things that need to be juggled, a particular challenge for someone who isn’t a natural multitasker or particularly organized. The only way out of that is to ignore things. One of the good parts of Substack is being able to ignore all the platform decisions and inevitable troubleshooting of building your site. There is an obvious cost advantage, but I think the bigger one is simply not thinking about it. I liked what Morning Brew CEO [Austin Rief said on a recent episode of the My First Million podcast](https://www.mfmpod.com/austin-rief-building-selling-the-morning-brew-for-millions-in-5-years-side-hustle-ideas-more/) about Morning Brew’s early days. They boiled down what they needed to do as simply “write, grow, sell.”
**Realize there are no shortcuts.** Anytime I’ve been injured running, I tend to believe there’s one stretch or massage that will miraculously heal the injury. Never turns out that way. Building from scratch takes patience and perseverance. We tend to lionize the “overnight” success stories that typically took longer than billed, found a temporary growth hacking seam, or at the very least are outliers. For the rest of us, [making something new is a slog](https://therebooting.substack.com/p/slow-growth) defined by incremental progress, mixed with setbacks, followed by more incremental progress. I start with the assumption anything I want to accomplish will end up taking twice as long, and be twice as hard as I thought. Sets expectations. And it will be imperfect. One of the main challenges of editorial people starting a business is the need to accept the inevitable rough parts of early products. People tend to be forgiving — thanks for that.
**Solo will only take you so far.** Unless you’re going to go all in on being a Substacker with a pure subs model, the solo creator is mostly a myth. [Nobody can do it all](https://therebooting.substack.com/p/going-solo). That means building a support team to make up for your own deficiencies. My plan was to expand The Rebooting this year already with new verticals. That didn’t happen. I realized it will just take longer with an independent path and relying on cash flow rather than raising capital to fund expansion. If this way takes longer, it takes longer. I’m now working with Paul Turcotte to [build out a real sales engine](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yYwtIcNhhQdmTNw8ZXpYFMYTWfWtBUb_GlCwIlJutv8/edit?usp=sharing). I don’t think I’m bad at sales – [we’re all in sales, after all](https://therebooting.substack.com/p/sales) – but I also don’t have the expertise in packaging together successful programs that someone like Paul has. It’s been great to have someone to work with to solve problems. And, since Paul is based in Miami Beach, I think I can plausibly write off trips there. If there’s one aspect of this project I’ve found surprising, it’s how challenging it can be to work by yourself most times. It’s one reason I’ve found adding the People vs Algorithms podcast rewarding. ([You should check it out](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/people-vs-algorithms/id1642958293).) Working with smart people like Troy and Alex is rewarding.
**Ask for help.** This might be a Gen X thing, but the idea of asking people for help with something is somewhat foreign. Maybe it’s because we were all left to our own devices for most of our childhoods. One of the most gratifying parts of doing this is how helpful people have been along the way – and understanding of the inevitable errors and screwups that are part of the building process. The most valuable resource is having a network of people you can ask for help. The flip side of that is making time and being available to others. The only real career advice I feel qualified to give to others is to avoid being overly strategic and transactional in your relationships. It’s a waste of mental energy, and you’ll probably end up in a far better position if you try your best to be genuine and not just think of yourself all the time.
**But go your own way.** I haven’t had a boss since October 2020. This has been nice, but not for the reasons I expected. Taking an independent path is, like most things, a tradeoff. There are so many downsides and risks to taking an independent path. Until a few weeks ago, I had no revenue commitments at all going into 2023. That can be scary. You need to trust that if you put in the work, things will inevitably work out, as they are now. ([You should get in touch to discuss how we can work together in 2023, btw](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yYwtIcNhhQdmTNw8ZXpYFMYTWfWtBUb_GlCwIlJutv8/edit?usp=sharing).) The upside is [the autonomy](https://therebooting.substack.com/p/autonomy). Like it or not, you have to make it happen. You can make what you want and choose the path that is right for you.
[Entrepreneurship](Things%20I%E2%80%99ve%20learned%20this%20year/Entrepreneurship)