---
type: Personal-Note
---
# What I’ve Learned at Sixty Years Old

- Highlights

 - What I’ve Learned at Sixty Years Old.

Christopher Smith AI-powered Strategist | Image Engineer | Singapore PR | Founder - RockPaperScissors | I help companies become better versions of themselves 3 articles Following May 14, 2024

As I approach my 60th birthday in a couple of days, I find myself thinking a lot about my life and the things I've learned over the past six decades. This milestone has prompted me to contemplate the experiences, challenges, and joys that have shaped my life and the wisdom I've gained along the way. So, here are some of the most meaningful lessons I've learned as I step into my seventh decade: 60 doesn’t feel as old as I thought it would be when I was 30. In the grand scheme of things, our time on this Earth is not very long. Why be an asshole? I learned more from my father than I give him credit for. I didn’t care about money the way I should have. I always just figured I would make more and, by some sort of magic, one day I would have enough. That wasn’t the case. Care about money as early as you can. My goal is to live a long time. Not sure how many summers that is — 10? 20? When you think about it that way, it doesn’t seem that long. I enjoy getting up early. I like the morning. I like the quiet. It gives me time to organize my dreams. Having an active sex life is key to a great relationship. But more important than that is... let me get back to you on that one. If you borrow a car, return it with a full tank of gas, no matter how much gas you used. I have tattoos I regret. I heard Scott Galloway say something like, “The good times aren’t as good as you think. And the bad times aren’t as bad.” I think he is right. We removed the TV from our bedroom a handful of years ago. I think it added a lot to our relationship. The bedroom is a place to create your own stories, not watch other people’s. And to sleep. And other stuff. I started my own company at age 59. I think it will last. I hope so. I intend to work for as long as I can. Today, the work environment isn’t kind to us older folks. There are so many rules about what you should and shouldn’t be doing when you hit my age. So I am changing, or ignoring, the rules. If I had to choose, I would say I am a leg man. I am a hugger. When I moved to Singapore, I was often the first to hug, which made some people uncomfortable. Now, my wife’s grandmother is the first to hug me when I see her. That makes me happy. If you are invited to a friend’s house for dinner, help clear and wash the dishes when the meal is finished. You will get invited back. My dad would say, “Son, you have to put feet to prayers.” I don’t pray as often as I should. But I have worn holes in the bottom of my shoes many times over. My bullshit detector gets better as I get older. But I also think I give people more room to sling their shit. After all, it’s part of who we are. But lately, it just feels like there is a lot of shit being flung. I try to say “Thank you,” “Hello,” and “Yes, ma’am” as often as the occasion permits. It’s the small, respectful things that people remember. I wished I had started doing yoga when I was younger. When I say “How are you,” I am really asking. I missed out on so much by not answering honestly when someone asked me that when I was younger. The older I get, the fewer friends I have. I have a lot of acquaintances, and I enjoy every minute with them, mostly. But friends? Maybe my standards have changed. But I think it’s because I actually enjoy my own company. People have said that I don’t look my age. I tend to agree. My secret? Drink as much water as possible. A good moisturiser every night. Guys, don’t choose your moisturiser. Have a woman do it. We just don’t know about these things. Also, having a younger partner helps. She keeps me on my toes and tends to walk faster than I do. So when I want to hold her hand on a walk, I need to pick up my pace. And because I like to hold her hand, I make the effort. A good partner in your life will change everything. My wife is a good partner. She may disagree with that, but I think she is. Some people say follow your passions. Others say follow the money. I always seemed to follow my curiosity, so I don’t have much to say about those other choices. But if I could have a mulligan on life, I would follow the money, because my passions are expensive. I wear glasses now. Every day. All the time. Not to help me see the past, but to help me see my future. My wife and I can sit next to each other for hours and not say much. To me, that is love. When I think about the type of person I try to be, I tend to use the measure, “If we were stuck in an airport bar in Delhi because our plane was delayed by a few hours, would I be good company?” If the answer is yes, then I am doing alright. I look at the size of the backpacks kids carry to school these days. Jammed with books. No room for play. I listen to records almost every day. There is something about listening that doesn’t happen when you have a piece of software play songs endlessly. To me, listening to records is like listening to a person. You are active. You are present. With people, you need to know when they stop talking so you can respond. I do wish that people came with liner notes though. It would make things a bit easier. Sometimes I have to take a minute. A pause. I look around and say, “Well, you asked for all this.” And I believe that. My wife says, “Thoughts become things.” Be careful what you think about. Three of the most powerful words are “I don’t know.” People should use them more often. I don’t think you ever fail at love. You fail at other things. Relationships end, and looking back it is pretty clear why they ended, mostly. But it was never about love. So pay attention to the other things, so that love has a place to flourish, like the bedroom, without a TV. I used to spend a lot of money on people. Now I try and spend more time. It’s what they will talk about when you are gone. You can tell a lot about a person by how they treat the waiter. I have a tattoo that says, “Fall down seven times. Get up eight.” I think I abused that saying by quite a few times. I still keep getting up. Over the years I have received thank you notes from people I have worked with. It made me feel amazing. I should have written more of those letters. Maybe I’ll write a few today. I like the sound of my own voice. I always have. But lately, I find that I am giving people more room to say things. I don’t need to be the first voice, or the loudest, anymore. Being first to talk is a young person’s game. I guess with experience comes the confidence of silence. We all have regrets. It’s part of life. The goal is to learn from them and then put them away in a box and move on. But if you need to keep getting a bigger box, you aren’t learning anything. I have lived a good life, I think, if I were to tally it up today. But I also believe my best days are in front of me. In case you are wondering, yes. I am happy.